# Aim – question quality
## Types of questions

‘What’ questions are usually too simple and unconnected to produce high retention. ‘**Why**’ and ‘**How**’ questions connect the information to other pieces of information and therefore are much more meaningful.

Questions that are more **emotional** or **personal** and that **spark curiosity** also connect much more. Since the objective is to enter a problem-solving mindset, do not ask questions about problems to which you already know the answer. If you are genuinely curious about the topic, you will be able to generate more knowledge.

### Note

Asking the right questions may be challenging in the beginning. However, by generating more curiosity, you will also find that you start to enjoy studying more, making it much easier to learn and retain information.

### Table of contents

Quiz

#### [[Question quality critique]]

> [!transcript]- Transcript
> (indistinct chatter) - Well done, you are on a roll. We're getting there. Trust me, these are so important to get as the foundations. And if you're just able to get this, things are gonna get so much smoother for you. So if you're following along so far, even if you're struggling a little bit, well done at least for trying and getting that experience out there and getting some experience under your belt, because all of that is gonna be great information data for you to then crunch through and process and think how can I make it better and that's exactly the perfect formula for actually improving and getting there okay so good job for even getting this far. Now let's really dig in to what makes the questions a higher level of quality because remember I said not all problems and questions or applications are created equal. Well there are definitely some types of questions and problems that produce much learning than others. And in order to understand why these questions work, let's just do a little bit of a recap on something that we've already talked about but framed a little bit differently, okay? So, remember that knowledge, okay, information is only given meaning, is only given relevance, and relationship to other pieces of information. Okay, it's the network effect here. Right, the network, the web, that's what gives information meaning, right? This is what we call the structure. It's the structure of information that gives the information meaning and makes it highly retainable information. Without structure, it's easily forgotten. Without structure, you don't have memory. Well, at least you don't have good functioning memory, okay? And let's look at this in terms of a series of train stations, okay? So here we have a miscellaneous country or something, you know? This is land and these red dots here represent cities or towns, places where people live. And let's say that each of these places, there is a train station, okay? Now, when you're learning passively, when we're learning passively, like the way that you might have been learning before this course, when you learn passively, you basically say, okay, this fact, this piece of information, this thing I've just learned, it's really important, it's gonna come up in the test. So I'm gonna focus on learning and memorizing this, and you invest a lot of resources, okay? You invest a lot of resources. What resources are we talking about? We're talking about the resources of time and energy, and just calories to maintain that information. Precious, precious calories that your cave person brain treasures. We're investing it, and we're saying we're gonna invest into this. And therefore, I want it to become a huge station. I want it to be such a well-developed station. I want this to be the next central station. I want people to go to the station just to take Instagram photos of it. We're gonna invest all of that into making this station huge and awesome and extremely memorable and large, okay? We wanna develop that. But here's the thing, let's have a look at this, okay? Let's say that these dots here, let's say these ones, these are the stations in major cities, okay? These are the major cities. This is like the capital here, and this is like the second capital. Okay, between these two cities, okay, there's gonna be a lot of people moving back and forth, right? Definitely. And let's say here, this is like a beach side place, a really great holiday destination. So there's gonna be connections going to and from there. Trains will wanna go to there. Okay, everyone's wanna go to this holiday destination, right? For sure, definitely. Let's say out here, there's like nothing. Okay, there's like one horse, okay? And I'm sure it's like awesome horse, you know, I got nothing against horses, but that's kind of all it's got going for it. Weather's horrible, it's way too hot, there's nothing to do there. The people are all really unfriendly, you know, it's just, there's no reason to go here, but you know, people still live here. It's a, you know, little local bakery. So, yep, there's a connection that goes out from here to here, all right. And then over here is very similar, it's like a little rundown place, okay. And in order to get to there, We can take a connection there. All right, good. Good, good. All right, cool. So let's have a look at this. Let's have a look at this. So we invested a bunch of resources into making the station really good. But who's gonna come off at the station? Who's gonna come off to see this one horse? Like I said, I got nothing against horses, but are we gonna get a lot of traffic back and forth between this single line? Probably not, right? Probably not. And so those resources that we invested, they effectively went to waste. We had this huge station, six different bathrooms for three people to use at any given time. So it meant that we really overdeveloped it. We invested a lot, but we invested it and it went to waste. And it just doesn't get used. We can't afford to maintain this anymore. It doesn't have enough traction. We can't afford to maintain it. But we're not talking about money, right? talking about we can't afford the calories, we can't afford the energy to maintain this connection. So what will your brain do? Your brain, the resource manager, it's gonna forget it. It's gonna forget it, okay? Or at least it's not gonna be as large. Which station then do you think your brain will invest more calories into? Which of these stations do you think your brain will invest more calories into? What station do you think your brain will say, "This is worth it because of the fact, okay? It is worth keeping. It is worth developing and making it bigger because there are a high number of connections and there's a lot of traffic. Traffic. Which station? Okay, these two for sure, right? These two, I mean, they're major cities, right? There's a lot of connections to and from them. definitely these two will be connected. And have you ever been to a major city where the main train station is like a tiny little shack? No, you don't, that doesn't happen. It develops because there are lots of connections going to and from it. They didn't create a massive station and therefore more people went there. It doesn't work that way. The station was big because of the fact there's lots of traffic to and from it, there's lots of connections. But what about this one? This one actually has quite a few lines going to it, right? So maybe this one will start developing a little bit as well. Maybe not quite as big as those major cities, but maybe this one will start getting bigger. So your brain is saying, look, because of the fact that there's so much traffic going to this, let's invest a little bit more resources into this station. This really is exactly how your brain works when it comes to knowledge. Knowledge that is visited a lot. Knowledge that is often used, okay? If the information is used often, if the pathway, okay, if it goes through that often, then it will develop that node, that train station of information, and it will get stronger and more memorable, okay? it will get stronger and more memorable. So, so while most people think that you need to invest a lot of time and effort on developing a single station, it's not. What you need to spend time and effort on is developing the number of connections. So instead, let's say that we made a bunch more connections to this place. This place is gonna get much more traffic 'cause there's a lot more connections to it. People are more incentivized to get there. As a result, this station will start getting bigger and better. And that's how it works, right? So it's actually the opposite. We don't have to focus on a single piece of information in order for that information to be more memorable. In fact, it's the opposite. We need to focus on how that information connects, how is it relevant to other pieces of information, and how can we make it so that we are able to use and go through these different nodes of information constantly. So we're getting a high amount of fraction between every single node so that they're all reinforcing each other. And they all become capital cities in a way. And this is where we can relate this to the types of questions that we ask. So the types of questions that we ask that are more like, "What is this?" Okay? When we're talking about what is the process, what is the definition, these superficial kind of "what" questions are much shallower, okay? Because you don't need to connect it to anything else. In order to learn what something is, it's very isolated, right? What is this? definition of this, it's all very isolated. What questions don't tend to connect between different pieces of information or different concepts very often. Whereas questions that ask more about why, these tend to be more connected. So we ask questions like, "Why does this happen? Why is this important?" Or even the direct question of how does it relate to everything else? So these questions are really solid. They're really good questions to ask. Because why does this happen? Why does this happen? Oh, it's because of this. Okay? It's because of this. Why is this important? Well, without this, you wouldn't be able to get this. Why is photosynthesis important? Because of, do you see how when you ask that question, we now need to think about the other aspects of a plant that make it important. Why does it happen? We now need to think about different aspects of the plant or chlorophyll in order to understand why it happens. How does it relate to everything else? See these questions force us to think about the big picture. They force us to make these connections. And because we're spending most of our time and effort on the relationships, we're building a better structure and therefore the information itself actually becomes more memorable. So in order for any individual fact to be more memorable, and I'm going to say this again, in order for any individual single fact or information to be more memorable. We need to actually not focus on each individual fact. We instead need to focus on the relationships. And as a result, as a byproduct, as a side effect of building such strong relationships, Our brain will, I promise you, our brain will start retaining this information much more easily, much more naturally, and it will be even much more enjoyable. So the thing with these "what" type questions, when I often ask students to make questions for the very first time, they tend to make questions that are just "what". But on top of that, they tend to make questions that don't actually spark any curiosity. So remember before I said that there's a spectrum, a priority around the types of questions that your brain finds more relevant. The things that were emotional, personal, and you were genuinely curious about, do you remember that? Those were the things that your brain finds higher priority. Those are the things that your brain finds higher priority, right? So things that were emotional, things that were genuinely that you found curious, or things that were personal to you, these were the things that your brain found as higher priority. And it's just because simply your brain just cares more, and because it cares more, it's just more willing to make more connections easily. You're not fighting uphill. You're not like, "Make this connection with this fact," and your brain is like, "But why? When you frame it in a way that just forces your brain to care, it just becomes easier. So these emotional, curious, personal questions, the skill required to make them is a skill that we need to learn. But when you're first starting, you don't have this skill. So what questions do you make instead? You tend to make questions that are more about just what is this answer. And we kind of already know the answer. So there's this show, there's this TV show. It's actually a very famous show. You may have heard of it, and you may not if it's less popular now. And it's called Jeopardy. Okay, the show is called Jeopardy. And the way that the show works is that you've got a game show host that will ask you a certain piece of trivia, and you just have to guess the question correctly. Okay, really common format, right? They basically say like, this country is the largest land mass on Earth. And then the person who's guessing it has to make the right answer. Like, oh, they're talking about Antarctica or Russia. So the way that this actually works, the game show, is that for whatever reason, the rule is that you can't say the answer as an answer. You have to, for whatever reason. You have to frame it as a question. So what the host does is they actually tell you the answer. And the participants, they need to tell you what the question was in order for this to be the answer. Okay, so let's just say like, okay, George Orwell wrote the book "1984." Okay, so the game show host, they might say, this person wrote and authored the book "1984." That's what the game show host would say. And the contestants would buzz and they would say, "Not George Orwell." They would have to say, "Who is George Orwell?" To which the answer would be, "The person that wrote 1984." So this is the kind of, I call it, "Jeopardy" questions, where they know the answer already, But they're simply just turning an answer they already know into a question that's really meaningless. So you might say, okay, photosynthesis is the process through which plants produce energy. So the question you would have, you'd have the key word as photosynthesis. And the question would be, how do plants produce energy? And the answer is photosynthesis. So you can see that that type of question, it's even though it's a question, it's actually not making you think about things in a different way. It's simply just repackaging your existing knowledge. And that doesn't make the brain think widely or think of relationships or think of connections or be curious because you're not curious about something you already know the answer to, right? You're not curious about the question, What is your name? You're not gonna be like, "Hmm, what is my name? What is my name? Tell me, what is my name?" You're not gonna have that type of thought because you're genuinely not curious 'cause you know the answer already. So you don't solve problems to problems you already know the answer to, okay? You don't activate the problem-solving mindset. Your brain, the checkbox, this solves a problem. It doesn't get picked when the question is something you already know the answer to. So the best types of questions are ones that are why asking, why asking, how, and also that you genuinely don't know the answer to. So these types of questions, plus genuinely curious, this is the combination for questions that produce the highest amount of learning. So if we go back to that jigsaw example, you know, you pick up the puzzle piece and you're saying, "Why is this puzzle piece important? Why do I need to know this? And how does this puzzle piece relate to everything else?" You genuinely don't know. You're genuinely curious. You've got a picture that you need to fulfill, and therefore you're going to put it in place. As opposed to saying, "What is this piece?" Because that's just very focused on the piece. Did it help you put it on the picture? No. All you did is focus on what is it. And imagine if you picked up every single piece and tried to just memorize what that piece looked like. It would have no meaning. So it would actually be harder to memorize what that piece looks like compared to if If you thought, how does it relate to the big picture? And where can I fit it in? And by actually thinking about it that way, you would end up actually being able to memorize what the piece looked like. Even without trying, you would memorize what that piece looked like because you were looking at it so critically and constantly comparing it. You realize it doesn't fit here, it doesn't fit here, it doesn't fit here, it could fit here. The image doesn't fit here. It looks okay here. It looks even worse here. So in your mind, this has been connected from so many different angles. There's so many ways that you can remember it, rather than just it in itself in isolation, just desperately trying to invest resources and turning this into a very high traffic station, a node in your brain. But your brain just doesn't work that way. Okay? These types of questions, the questions about why is this important, how does this relate to everything else, the ones that you genuinely don't have the answer to, these are the ones that are the best questions to ask. And actually as a rule of thumb, I can say that if you ask these questions for pretty much every major concept, maybe not every single fact, but most facts, you will realise that initially, "Man, it takes quite a bit of effort to ask these questions, to get the answer to those. It takes quite a while." Okay, your learning is quite slow at the beginning because every single fact, you're like, "Why is it important? Why does that happen? How does it relate to everything else?" And it just takes so long to learn that and you're thinking, "Oh man, this is when you start to panic." You're like, "Oh, this is taking too long. It's taking too long." And this is usually where the quitters will quit. If you push through that, what you're going to see is that the next piece of information, you're like, "Oh, I know how that relates because I've got a really good connection, a good web, a good structure to base that on." And the next thing you learn, you're like, "Oh, that's actually really similar to the last thing I learned." And the next thing is, "Oh, that's actually really basically the same thing as what I learned over here. It's just a different example of it. Oh, and I can relate it to all these other points that you learn along the way." So what you realize is that eventually what happens is that it gets faster and faster and faster. So the more you think about these types of questions, your learning actually gets faster and faster and faster. And I can promise this to you, it's very, very consistent. But most people, they are in this part and they don't push through. They panic and then they just quit. They are too afraid to lose when they don't realize that the true risk, the true thing that they're losing is the opportunity to ride this extremely efficient curve. Okay, and so me knowing this and my students knowing that this is where you go to, this actually ends up being enjoyable because you realize you're just about to kick off. It's kind of like that anticipation of the roller coaster before you plummet down you get that feeling of anticipation where you're excited because you know that any moment things are gonna get much much much easier and you will feel like you're really flying through topic. It's a hugely liberating feeling academically and it gives you a lot of confidence and it just feels like learning is a lot more enjoyable and much more natural and that type of feeling is something that I think every student should be able to feel and this process of aiming correctly with asking these types of really good questions, it's the first step. It's the first step and once you get on that first step, You're on the staircase and all you have to do is keep climbing up. All right, so let's practice this a little bit more. Have a look at the ones that you've written, maybe questions you've written in the past even, and actually evaluate how many of the questions that I wrote were actually really high quality.

