# Bear Hunter System -  Aim
## Moving into Ascent 1

By now, you should have:

1. Realised that your quality of learning is affected by the type of thinking (cognitive processes) you engage in.
2. Experienced higher-order learning, which involves comparing, contrasting and prioritising information instead of just learning it in isolation.
3. Practised using non-linear notes to represent the maps and schemas formed through higher-order learning.
4. Experienced how your method of writing notes can help or hinder your ability to engage in higher-order thinking.
5. Used questioning and inquiry-based learning (via the TLS) to guide your thinking and the types of relationships you explore.
6. Experienced how asking different questions makes you explore different types of relationships, which changes the types of schemas and maps you form.
7. Practised forming backbones to your learning, which forces you to prioritise, re-arrange, and re-label groups of information based on what makes the most sense to you.
8. Experienced how forming backbones can help you see information in a different order and perspective from how it’s taught or presented in textbooks.
9. Practised spaced interleaved retrieval for different orders of learning.
10. Utilised Kolb’s experiential cycle to drive improvements.
11. Experienced how the quality of your reflection and abstraction dramatically affects the usefulness of your experiments.
12. Started to intuitively see progress through the lens of marginal gains instead of as binary “success or failure” or “big leaps”.
13. Practised using various self-management techniques (time and task management) to maintain optimal and healthy productivity levels.

### Alert

If you haven’t completed all these, we recommend practising your current skillset more before moving on. Taking time to reach _moderate to high conscious competency_ in the previous techniques prevents technique errors and cognitive overload.

## About this stage

The following are new techniques or systems you will learn in Ascent I.

|New Techniques|Rationale|
|---|---|
|Aim|An intermediate-level skill for inquiry-based learning. It builds on the skill you developed from the Traffic Light System (red light).|
|Maintaining focus|An extension of the focus techniques from previous stages.|

The following are techniques from previous stages that you should continue using.

|Technique|Notes|
|---|---|
|Traffic light system (green light)|While the red light will be replaced by “Aim”, the green light will not be replaced until later in Ascent II.|
|Scheduling basics|Continue to refine and habituate your scheduling so it is more personalised for you. Be critical about what is working well and what isn’t.|
|BEDS-M|Lock in the habits of BEDS-M during this stage. We will build on this at Basecamp.|
|SIR|There is no change to the technique, but you will start noticing that you will need to revise less as your retention increases.|
|Non-linear note-taking|All notes should always be processed. In Ascent II, we will replace this, but for now, continue to make your chunks clearer and your relationships more obvious.|

The following techniques will be replaced and upgraded.

|Prior Technique|Replaced with…|
|---|---|
|Traffic light – red light|Bear Hunter System – Aim|
|Prestudy basics|Bear Hunter System – Aim|

> [!transcript]- Transcript
> What does that mean? to do your cobes on. So before we jump into that, let's do a very, very quick recap in terms of some of the most important points, as well as what you should be familiar with by now to know that you're ready to learn this system. We've covered the idea that your brain processes information, and depending on how you process it, it affects the quality of encoding. If we do it poorly, we forget lots. We have to make up for that with more time and effort on relearning and more retrieval. Whereas if we do it very well with a high quality, we're able to hold on to that information for longer, it's stickier, and we're able to then use that information at higher orders with more complex needs and we're able to retrieve it in more diverse situations like complex problem-solving. And by now we should be familiar with some of those processes that produce high quality learning. Higher order learning and higher order thinking, a lot of that comparing, evaluative learning where we're integrating knowledge, and we're even starting to experiment with the usage of mind maps and nonlinear notes to represent that nonlinear thought process on paper or on our tablet. There should be a connection between the notes that we're writing and the activities that we're doing and the processes that we're trying to activate. And so this is an important part of self-regulation. aware of what process we should be using cognitively and we're able to match that with the process physically that is meant to help that cognitive process. Adding on to that we've added little parts of inquiry based learning using traffic light system. We're getting used to forming a backbone which is really honing in on our ability to do an even higher level of higher-order learning where we're not just finding groups, we're not just representing it non-linearly, we're not just finding relationships, but we're now prioritizing and truly evaluating to see which relationships and groups and group structures, aka relationships plus groups, make the most sense and seem to be the best at scaffolding the entire topic. And of course, we can't forget that we should have some experience with interleaving as well, so that we are re-encoding that we are retrieving, that we are having that safety net for the things that do fall through as we continue to develop that encoding skill. And we have a strong focus on experimental, experiential learning. We're doing that code cycle to track our marginal gains along, including whatever self-management skills like time management or task management or stress management or goal setting, whatever it is that we need to be able to enable us to use these learning skills in the first place. We should have pretty decent competency for most of those things, definitely well and truly in the realm of conscious competency of varying levels of effort and consistency as we've talked about. So now what we'll do is we'll put that into a singular system, a structure, a series of steps that we can follow and we call this the bear hunter system and don't worry there are no bears harmed in the making of the system and you will not harm bears either unless you are learning how to hunt bears using the bear hunter system which is kind of a different thing but the idea is that just like how when we were back living in caves and the way that our brain adapted to learn we are using a system that makes use of those biological tendencies except we're not using it to hunt bears, presumably, we're using it to learn biology, chemistry, maths, physics, accounting, finance, economics, politics, legal studies, whatever it is that you're learning. And the bear hunter system is divided into three key steps. The first step is aim, which leads to shoot, which leads to skin, which sounds a little bit morbid but it does make sense. In the first part, the aim step, we are pointing our brain, we're aiming our brain at the topic in a way to maximize relevance. The objectives of the aim step are to scope the topic, to identify the most pertinent areas and the keywords that we want to focus on, and to build that backbone so that we're priming our brain for maximum relevance and therefore maximum retention and making all of that higher order learning much easier to do. When we're able to do the AIM step really well it means that that higher order learning, that evaluative thinking, we're able to handle that overwhelm much more easily. We should be able to do it for bigger topics in a shorter amount of time. So it's improving our efficiency with that. Obviously if at this stage you're still not comfortable with just doing that basic evaluation and creating some priorities and groups and non-linear note-taking and things like that, then you probably want to slow down a a little bit before you enter into this phase. After we've aimed what do we do? Well naturally after we've aimed we've got a shoot. So shoot refers to then really analyzing the resources, the text, the lectures, the videos, whatever resources that we are learning from. And we've primed our brain so now we are going to give our brain the material to really dive in and learn it. So this is where we're going through the material in much more detail, we're really filling in our understanding of it, we're truly building up that mastery process using the scaffold and the priming that we created in the aim step. And the final step, which is the skin step, this is allowing us to clean up the structures that we've created. Because the nature of the balance system allows us to work with large volumes of information in a relatively short period of time, it means that there will be some inevitable back and forth. You're not gonna create the best relationship or the best structure straight away. It's just too much volume to work with. And it's not efficient to try to get them perfect at every step of the way either. We should be allowing a little bit of error because that's more efficient. We can move a little bit faster if we're not too careful about getting everything perfect. That's why the skin step is there. So any of the additional relationships we figured out later on, maybe in a fifth hour of studying, we realized, "Ah, we probably should have put this thing here instead of here." The Skin Step gives us the opportunity to clean all of that up and consolidate it. The good thing is that the Skin Step in itself can be a form of interleaving, which means that you can schedule it in just like how you would schedule in any other form of interleaving. And the Aim Step can also be used as a form of pre-study as well. I'll talk a little bit more about the difference between the AIM step and pre-study when I teach the AIM step properly though. As you move forward working through the Bear Hunter system, the idea is that you'll now have three key pillars. The first one will be your pillar for encoding effectively. That will be the Bear Hunter system. You use the Bear Hunter system to encode new knowledge at any time. For any type of subject, you can use this system. And then for retrieval and optimizing that performance, we're going to be using our interleaving, spaced interleaved retrieval. That fundamental still exists. We'll learn a few ways that we can upgrade that later on, but it's still just as powerful as it was when you first learned it. We're going to keep that going strong, but you'll find that those sessions are easier because your original encoding is of a higher quality. You probably already realize that now, in fact. And you'll also be able to space things out with longer gaps, again because our base encoding is higher, and again, you probably also started to notice that already anyway. The third pillar will be our pillars around self-management, the enablers that allow us to engage in these learning skills in the first place, and this will be the combination of different time and task and other types of prioritization and procrastination reduction and goal setting and planning and all those other skills that we taught you, the system that you're developing with that. And of course, we can't forget the thing that binds all of them together, that will always be there, will be there for the rest of your life, which is COPEs, allowing us to develop these skills and continue to refine them and improve them. (birds chirping)

