# How to aim
## Overview

**Aiming** is about pointing your brain in the right direction. By asking the right questions, we encourage our brain to think in specific patterns and form specific relationships. 

Two questions that consistently create high-quality networks for any subject are:

- **Why is this important?**
- **How is this related to ___?**

### Purpose of this step

1. To make new information relevant and immediately form networks
2. To activate higher-order learning as early as possible
3. To create groups (chunks) and relationships that are robust, versatile and suit our retrieval needs

The table below outlines how using this technique can feel and what these feelings mean at a cognitive level. Refer to this table to improve your metacognition and ensure you understand the purpose of the technique. Connecting your emotional experience with the cognitive processes of learning helps you make fine-tuned adjustments and solve any technique issues more easily.

|How it can feel|Cognitive outcomes|
|---|---|
|Same as for the Traffic-Light System (see the meta-checklist [here](https://learning.icanstudy.com/learning/pr-academic/ph-growth/st-technique-training/ls-inquiry-based-learning/pg-TLS-correctly)).|Same as for the Traffic-Light System (see the meta-checklist [here](https://learning.icanstudy.com/learning/pr-academic/ph-growth/st-technique-training/ls-inquiry-based-learning/pg-TLS-correctly)).|
|Overwhelming, due to the number of relationships you discover while answering the question, “Why is it important?”.|Rapidly creates a network of possible relationships for you to refine.|
|Confusing, as there are many possible non-linear structures for the main concepts, and it takes significant effort to decide which structure makes the most sense.|Adds a high degree of prioritisation and evaluation (one of the highest orders of learning).|
|Time-consuming, because each keyword or concept requires such deep examination.|Deep examination consolidates your learning. This feeling will fade as your speed and efficiency gradually increase. Over time, your brain becomes better at creating networks, prioritising them, and deciding on the best hypothetical structure.|

## Common questions

### How does Aim fit with prestudying?

**Prestudy and Aim often overlap. However, they are not the same thing.**

The purpose of prestudying is to prime our brain to create relationships before an intensive main learning event. We explore the purpose of prestudying in this article [here](https://learning.icanstudy.com/learning-support/prestudy-guide).

The Bear Hunter System is a system of learning, whereas prestudy is a chronological step in the learning journey. The Aim step should be one of (if not the very first) step in the learning journey.

If this happens _before_ an intensive main learning event, this can be considered prestudy. If there is no prestudy, Aim should still be the first step of the learning journey. As it is very difficult to manage this kind of thinking in an intensive lecture or class, Aim may have to occur after the main learning event during a self-study session instead. This is not optimal.

However, the amount you can cover in prestudy is a decision. You could do a very brief prestudy of just 5 or 10 minutes, in which time a full Aim may not be possible. In this case, you would do a very superficial Aim to develop only the largest chunks and major relationships.

Alternatively, it's possible to do a much more comprehensive prestudy. In this case, we could do a full Aim and even add more detail. Once you learn the Shoot step which comes after Aim, this could also be done during prestudy.

**In summary, prestudy is about** _**when**_ **you start learning. The Bear Hunter System is** _**how**_ **you learn.**

### Once I learn Aim, should I stop doing the TLS red light?

Yes, the Aim completely replaces TLS red light. While red light creates some initial connections and relationships, Aim is a more focused and strategic use of questions to create only those relationships that are likely high-yield.

### What is the difference between "Why is it important" and "How does it relate to__"?

These two questions may seem conceptually identical. However, we have arrived at these two key questions after years of trial and observation.

**Why is it important?**

This question focuses our attention on the big picture. It creates a focus, purpose, and alignment between the ideas. It helps us push through to the _Evaluate_ level of thinking where we make judgments and prioritisations of networks. Asking this question critically helps our chunks become more memorable and intuitive.

**How is it related to [another concept]?**

This question explores additional relationships that may not be obvious. When we explore why something is important, it is difficult to escape our existing biases and preconceptions about the information. Two concepts may initially seem unrelated, and only when forced to explore their relationship do we find new perspectives and potential chunks. Sometimes, this leads us to re-evaluate our entire chunk structure and reasons for importance.

> [!transcript]- Transcript
> (Aksiy traffic light system anymore. I mean certainly by now you should have moved away from just collecting and processing. If you ended up needing to use that step the normal method of nonlinear note-taking and things we're gonna start replacing that and Ascent 2 for now whatever method of note-taking and mind-mapping that you are using continue to use that continue to refine that continue to do your colbs on it and the next stage we will actually learn how to refine it even further to completely augment the aim step. However for now just do your best with whatever technique that you have. As long as you're doing your cobes, you're probably doing fairly well. And if you haven't been doing your cobes, then let this serve as a reminder for you to jump back into it. So the aim step. Let's go through what you're meant to do step by step. So the aim step is rather simple and you should have already a lot of the core competencies necessary to do this relatively accurately already. We're already used to the idea of collecting the information that we need first, isolating out the keywords and scoping the information for what we need and we should also be used to using our questions to help us find relationships and therefore also help us trigger that evaluative higher-order learning which in turn allows us to not only prioritize our relationships but also form groups otherwise known as chunks, and of course relate the chunks to each other to create a chunk structure, which is essentially our network of groups, which is essentially our knowledge schema that we are forming, that multi-relational integrated knowledge schema. What we're doing in the AIM step is we're actually working at this step over here. So the idea is that if the relationships that that you're discovering depend on the questions that you are asking, because it points your brain to think in a certain way, just like how, for example, if I ask you, what did you have for dinner, you're gonna think in a different way to if I ask you, what is your mother's name? The questions affect everything that happens after this. If you ask the right question, then you think in a certain way that allows you to find certain relationships, and that therefore means that you're evaluating different ideas and different concepts and different relationships against each other. So naturally what you end up forming as chunks and what you're prioritizing also changes. So we naturally already know that not all questions are as effective. So some questions are more predisposed to triggering lower order learning. So these types of questions for example, just asking questions that are very isolated. These are all lower order learning questions. And then there are some questions that are higher order, for example, these comparative questions. The ones that make us compare two concepts against each other and define similarities and differences. And of course, the ones that make us What we're going to do in this AEM step is introduce two key questions that you should be asking yourself. And these two questions can replace pretty much every other question that you'd normally ask. In the Traffic Light System, you're used to asking a variety of questions that are driven by curiosity. And the reason that we were doing that was because we wanted you to get used to using that process of inquiry to fuel the way that you think. connection between question and relationships, and therefore the higher order learning that you do as a result of that, we wanted you to become familiar with that process. And so by being familiar with that process, we can then start refining that process. Back in the day, I used to not have that original step. I used to go straight away to try and teach people the best types of questions that we can use. There are many possible ways that we can interpret that, and not all of the ways are actually accurate. So we're going to cover some of that in this lesson. So what are these two questions? Well, the two questions are, why is this important? And how does this relate to blank? And each of these questions serve a very specific purpose. Now, it might seem like these two questions are simply just two random questions, but it took me years to figure out that these two questions are really the ones that you want to land on. Because if you've got too many questions you're asking, can be very multi-directional. So yes, you do get relationships, but it increases chances of sort of going down a rabbit hole or going down in the way too out of scope. A little bit out of scope is fine, but you go too out of scope, that makes it a bit of a messier process. And so overall what I found was that if you're able to focus your attention on just a couple of key characteristic questions, then we can focus the thinking process as well. And it means that it's much more predictable in terms of the type of relationships we come to and eventually the type of chunk structure we come to as well. It also made it much easier for coaching because it meant that we are able to standardize the type of thinking process that people are doing and help you work through your problems a lot more effectively compared to if you had a hundred different questions of all these different varieties. And we found that actually asking these types of questions created a better knowledge structure that was more practically useful, easier to retrieve and easier to really reach that higher level of thinking compared to a lot of the alternative questions. And so this is why these two questions are the core of the AEM step. So what's so hard about asking two questions? Okay well there are a lot of ways the questions can be interpreted. Knowing how to answer these questions that is a skill and you'll see that there was lots of demonstrations about how this looks in different contexts as well and you'll see the different variations of how we can do the AIM step but the underlying trend remains the same and I'll break down that process in this video. So once we've got these questions asked we're then going to go through skim through the resources read through the material to gain a general understanding about why it is important or how it relates to blank whatever else other concepts or keywords that there are and following from that we're going to hypothesize some structures. And the important thing here is that we're hypothesizing the structures, we're not saying, oh, this is definitely the chunk structure that I'm going to get to, this is definitely the backbone that I'm gonna get to. We're saying, this is possibly the backbone that I'll get to. It might work, maybe it doesn't. And so we're always open to coming back to this hypothesis and constantly testing this as we continue to learn more, not only throughout the aim set, but also later in the shoot step, maybe even up to the skin step, we're constantly willing to review this chunk structure to see if there's a better way that we can do it that makes most sense for us. Because that is the goal, it is to make learning make sense to us, to make it logical and to make it intuitive. So let's see how these steps look in action. And again, it is very simple procedurally. The devil is in the details in terms of the nuance of how we're answering these two important questions. So step one, we're gonna collect the keywords. So let's say for example, we have a mix of resources. We have a video that we're watching. We have maybe a book that we're learning from with just normal sort of linear notes. Maybe we have a series of slides as well that have been provided to us and a course guide or something like that. And maybe we've also got a big, big thick textbook as well. And of course, we might have something like Google or potentially some alternative form like an AI search solution. Basically some resource that you're able to tap into to get answers that are hard to find or don't seem to exist within the ones that above that were potentially prescribed to you or that you otherwise have access to. And so what we'll do here is that we will quickly skim through these to find and collect a list of keywords. And you can type these keywords out, it doesn't matter. It doesn't have to be in order. In fact, it's sometimes better to do it out of order because what we want to avoid is we want to avoid chunking it in just the same way it was taught to us. Often when we're reading something that is in a linear format, because of the fact that knowledge is not linear, when it's transformed into a linear format, and remember, things like videos are also in a linear format because it's delivered to you in a certain progression, in a certain order. Obviously, written text down the page like this is the most linear format. Textbooks are very linear often. Actually, even slides are very linear. Diagrams, flowcharts, these things may not be as linear, but most of the time we're dealing with linear information. And linear information was the transformed version of information. If you think about knowledge in and of itself, inherently knowledge is not linear. So in order for you to have perceived it to begin with, someone had to transform their nonlinear knowledge into something that is now linear for you to then learn off of. Your job as a learner is not to just learn the linear form of that knowledge. Your job as a learner is to turn it back into closer to the original mastery of the person that gave you that information, which is nonlinear, which is structured in a multi-relational integrated knowledge schema. So that's what your goal is. And so we have to deconstruct the information in order to reconstruct it in the most accurate way. Often the headings, the titles, the hierarchies, and the way that it is taught to us in a linear format is not the same way that we should encode that information and hold on to that information. Even if you're being tested in a linear format, it's still not advisable to learn it linearly to begin with. You can always learn it in the way that is cognitively most optimal, and then you can retrieve and practice retrieving it in a linear format. It's much easier to manipulate strong knowledge that's encoded well, that you're not forgetting very easily, than it is to compromise the quality at which you're learning it, forget all the time, just because you know that you need to output it in that same way. The way you need to retrieve information and the way you encode information the same, but often, especially with academic learning, like prescribed linear notes and things like that, often it's very, very different. So we don't want our chunk structure to really follow the same way that it was presented to us. And to prevent us from the cognitive bias of thinking about it only in the way it was given, with these headings and these subheadings, and then that becomes a chunk and this becomes a sub-chunk, it can actually be useful to deliberately collect the keywords in a different order than it was given. The other thing that we can do is make keywords that aren't necessarily plain and obviously given to us. So it may not be a bold word or a heading or in the table of contents or something. You may skim through a paragraph and feel like it's talking about some kind of concept. You can make your own keyword for it. you can look at a diagram. And maybe that diagram doesn't have a particular keyword that is given for it, but you think it seems like an important concept that you wanna note down, you can make your own keyword for what that diagram is trying to tell you. So don't spend too long on this step. We are just trying to get a list of keywords. It doesn't have to be 100% comprehensive. It might take you, let's say, two hours to comprehensively get 100% of all the main concepts. It might take you 25 minutes to do this for 80% of the ones. Don't worry about the small little tiny terminology that might be missing in all the little cracks. Just focus on getting the ones that you think are the most important. For most topics, let's say you're doing a couple chapters of a textbook, or if you're a secondary school student, maybe this is a few weeks of class material or something, you're not normally gonna have more than 20 or 30 of these major concepts. In some cases, you've got actually even a lot less. You might even have sort of 15 to 20. So you don't have to have pages and pages of concepts. Being 100% completionist is not the name of the game. The name of the game for this task is to just get what you think is the most important ideas that if you were to miss this, you're probably missing something that's very important. And you can get a sense for that with a very, very quick skim read. So again, for this step, We're trying to be relatively quick here. There's a picture of a clock just to show that we want to have a certain level of pace. Right, don't worry too much about those details. We're really just picking through, getting some of these concepts. Now, what do you do if you encounter a word that you have absolutely no idea what it means? If you encounter a brand new terminology, you've never heard of it, and you can't even guess what it means, read a little bit about it so that you understand what it means. Just enough to have a general idea of it at it again later. Don't go into it too much in detail, don't really try to understand it too fully, just enough so that when you read the word it's not completely foreign, you have a general idea about how to think about it. I personally wouldn't spend more than 30 to 40 seconds to try to understand what a new word means. If it takes after 30 seconds it feels like you still don't understand it, I would then ask that question in Google and in AI. Ask it, "What does this word mean? Tell me in you know like a single paragraph. You really just want to have that general very very basic scope. So this process shouldn't take too long if it's taking you too long you're probably trying to collect too many words or the volume of information you're working with is too high for your skill level or you're getting too anchored down into all of those details. After you've collected all of these keywords you're then going to move on to asking that question using that inquiry process and the questions we're asking is why is this important and how does it relate to blank. Notably we're not asking the question of what something is at all. The idea here is that when your brain tries to engage in higher-order learning the lower-order learning requirements are met by default. It's impossible to compare two ideas against each other when we don't even know what the ideas are. In trying to compare it we will have to learn what it means in the first place. And even though that is a lower order process technically because we're just trying to understand it, it is actually going to have a higher order advantage because the intention, the purpose behind why we are learning what it is, is so that we can do the evaluation. And so it's different to just saying I'm gonna learn what it is and then maybe later coming back to it. That's a completely different story. If we start by just saying what is it and then collecting all of these keywords and let's say we've got 10 keywords and we ask what does this mean what is it what is it what is it what is it what is it and then we try to create the relationships afterwards we are actually doing ourselves a disservice because we've probably already forgotten half of that stuff because it wasn't integrated to begin with and our short-term memory only lasts seconds to a couple of minutes so unless you're really integrating all of that within seconds to a couple of minutes, we've just wasted that time. So at the time where we are actually doing the inquiry, we want to be creating that integration as quickly as possible. So we've got this list of keywords and we're gonna do our questioning process. We're gonna ask why is it important and this is a process through which we call importance-based chunking. And you'll see us talk about this all of the time. You'll see coaches talk about this. You'll see it get thrown around in the community all the time as well. Importance-based chunking is the idea that the chunk structure we end up forming is based on its importance and this is because when we ask why something is important it tends to make us do a type of higher-order learning and a type of evaluative thinking that is very beneficial for most retrieval needs. I found that when we can answer this question very accurately the chunk structures that we form are often very transferable, very applicable for most types of retrieval needs. Basically you can do this for any different topic and really it supersedes every other type of question that you can ask of this subject. When you ask this question all the other questions seem to be included within it. It's weirdly the most important question to ask which is why it is important which is a coincidence I think. But of course we can't forget the second question which is asking how is it related. Now when we're first starting it's going to be a very step-by-step process. We're going to start by collecting the keywords and we're gonna go through each of the keywords and we're gonna simply say well why is this important and how is this keyword related to the other keywords. So obviously when you're first starting, you're not going to be able to say why the first keyword is related to the second keyword because you may not have really explored the second keyword enough. So when you're first starting, you're not really gonna have a lot to work with there. However, as you get to your third and fourth keyword, now you've got three or four keywords to work with. So when you say, how is it related, you've got these other keywords that you've already covered. And then as you're asking the question, why is it important? you're going to start relating it to the other keywords as well. So you'll start probably, you know, usually you'd start at the top of the list and then you work your way down. But as you continue to ask these two questions, you find that you're covering the later concepts as well. And then that's where that curiosity can lead you. So once you get partway through the list, you can just start going out of order. And remember that the list might be out of order to begin with because you literally wrote it out of order to prevent framing bias. So really what we're doing is we are taking control of the order. We're doing our order control. We are deciding to learn it in the order that we feel is potentially the most relevant for us, that we are directing, we are leading. And so we ask these questions, we develop these relationships, we hypothesize on some of these structures, and then we let our curiosity take us in terms of what word we should do next. And again, for the first part, it's probably going to be just down the list because you don't have enough to work with, but once you start having a few possible maps starting to form, then you'll be able to bounce around back and forth a lot more organically. And again you'll see exactly what this looks like in the demonstration as well with some more context. Now I'm gonna go through this point in a little bit more detail in terms of how we actually answer this question correctly, because there are many ways to answer why something is important, but not every way of answering it is actually correct. Remember the purpose of asking this question, "why is it important?" is so that it generates order learning which involves the evaluation and the comparison. So if the question you're asking doesn't create this higher order learning it hasn't done its job. So one of the things that we often see is that people will do something that we call importance checklisting where they have the right question they'll say why is this keyword or concept important but instead of finding multiple possible relationships they'll simply answer it with like a singular one sentence or one word answer. So when you say well why is this important they'll say because of this and then move on to the next one why is this important because of this but that's not really the case. There's usually multiple reasons why something is important. Some of those reasons may be more significant than others or more applicable in different contexts but that's actually the point. We want to understand the relationships that it has with all these other things using the question of importance as a trigger. So answer why something is important, it doesn't actually mean that you've done the step correctly unless that has led you to identify multiple relationships and then compare those relationships with each other. So you can see that in the beginning you might say that well this first thing is related to this second thing and it leads to maybe this part and that's the reason it's important. And then when you do the second keyword you might say well actually no this first reason was actually wrong it's not important because of that it's actually important because both of these things contribute to this thing here and this is a pre-step before that and at this point you might think well I'm quite interested in this particular concept so you might go into that and say well why is this one important and then how does that relate to these top two and maybe another concept and then you'd go back and forth between these discovering new concepts finding new networks correcting finding new mistakes back and forth and this is the idea of hypothesizing those relationships. As you go you have certain ideas about how you might be able to structure it. So I'm just going to use letters of the alphabet. Each letter will represent one keyword and then you'll see what this looks like in context in the subject examples later. So let's say that we have these concepts A, B, C, D and E as we're going through we might say okay well a might be important because of its relationship to be But we're not sure we'll just keep going through B is important because of its relationship to a yep That's definitely correct, but it seems to maybe be involved in something else around here, but I'm not quite sure about that Let's leave that for now. Let's go through to C. Okay C seems to be related to both a and B Okay, so both a and B create C in the first place And actually now that I've learned about C. There's actually another feedback relationship with C then Influences something that happens at B And maybe something over at E. So we'll go to E now. How is that important? Okay? That's a back-and-forth relationship and then that might be related to D And so we've got this general idea and at the moment it's just a list But we could represent this like this instead we could say A is going to It's going to be which leads to C, which then feeds back to B, with an input back and forth from E, that also leads to D. And so you see now that I use my spatial arrangement to represent this with nonlinear note taking, it starts to take a life of its own. It's a lot more clear what the relationships are and what the general backbone and the structure of the information might be. But in the AIM step, we're not gonna be sure about this. These are all gonna be just potential ideas. We could be completely wrong. And so what's more realistic is that we're not gonna be able to say, yes, this is how it is. We'll be able to say, well, maybe it's this, but it could also be that maybe A and also C should actually be grouped together. And then that is actually leading to B. I wonder if that's an idea. And is it possible that we could potentially group together as well and then that could actually have a relationship to C and this is more realistic of what the notes would look like. You'd have these multiple possible ideas sort of sprawled around as you're considering them and then as you go through to learn more you go through the other keywords in the aim step you might say ah this doesn't actually make sense and this doesn't make sense but actually I could combine the two and form something else instead so you're constantly going back and forth to revise your hypothesis and this This will continue all the way through in the shoot step as well. So we never want to be completely solid on the structure that we create with these main ideas to begin with because we might be wrong, we don't want to over commit and bias ourselves to sticking with that structure because we spent all this time and effort to figure out that this structure seems right and then we realise, oh maybe it's not, but then I spent all that time and effort, I sort of don't want to break the structure and make a new It feels like I can't be bothered to do that. This is what we call the sunk cost fallacy, where we've already sunk a lot of cost into doing this, and that's going to affect our decision for whether we want to rework it. We want to avoid that. So everything is very hypothetical. We're just playing with a few ideas, and we have something that feels like a good big picture, backbone level understanding, doesn't have to have any of those key details, just a general understanding about the main ideas, the main groups of ideas, aka the main chunks, and then the main concepts within them. So how do you know you're doing this step correctly? Because number one, you should feel you are doing a lot of higher order learning, or rather you're doing a lot of higher order thinking to generate these higher order learning structures. That's a lot of that evaluation a lot of that comparison you will probably do it be doing a lot of back and forth when you ask the question of why is it important you will find that you are generating lots of relationships not just a single answer you're creating multiple possible hypotheses and these hypotheses could be in terms of relationships they that you think might be important or maybe are important, and they could also be in terms of the actual chunks you're creating as well. Could I chunk them this way? Could I group them this way? Or should I group them another way? Which way would make most sense for me? If you're doing all of these things, you're probably doing it right. If even one of these steps is missing, you're probably not either holding yourself to a high enough standard, or thinking deeply about it enough, or potentially, if you are trying to do this, but it's just taking forever, you're probably just getting sucked into the details too much. Remember, we do have a list of keywords, but if you go through this and maximum depth for every single keyword, it's going to take a long time. Keep it hypothetical, play with the ideas, group things in terms of how you think it might be important. Remember, the objective of the AEM Step is to prime our brain for relevance, just figuring out what we think the main ideas are and scaffolding that out and then layering on what we think the main concepts are, is perfectly fine. That in itself is going to be enough. We don't have to be completely accurate, and we don't have to be completely certain. In fact, it's probably a bad thing to be that certain so early on in the studying process. And so there are a couple of common questions that arise about this technique. The first is, what is so special about it? It just seems like it's asking a couple of questions. Yes and no. In fact, the fact that it seems so simple is part of the beauty of it. It sounds a little bit cliche, but we want our brain to be very, very focused. And when it comes to learning, as by now you probably should realize, learning is very complicated. It's a very complicated process. There's a lot of different types of thinking that can go on. Not all of those types of thinking are actually productive to producing the knowledge schema that we want. To work that way through mastery and develop expertise in as short of a time as possible, it requires a focused, directed effort. And the best way to focus and direct your effort is to give it a prompt, to make it clear what is the objective of what we're trying to achieve. And so ironing out this objective and figuring out exactly what do we need to prompt our brain with, and what type of thinking do we need to engage in to generate the structure that is the most beneficial for us, this was the challenge that I set out to solve that the AIM step solves. And the other thing is that because of the fact what we're doing is scoping to find keywords first, whether it's scrubbing through and skimming a video and reading the captions, or what you can also do is you can chuck it into a transcription AI. It will transcribe the lecture or video or whatever it is for you, and you can pick through that itself. Or you can check the transcript in another AI to break down in terms of figuring out what the keywords and concepts are from that. It can do the work for you. The keyword collection part is not the part that you need to worry about. That's the easiest part. The faster you can do that, the better, because the main benefit is using the keywords as a platform to do order control and higher order learning, both at the same time across multiple resources. So now it doesn't matter how many resources that you have. It doesn't matter how it was taught to you. It doesn't matter how good your teacher was. It doesn't even matter how interesting the subject seems, because you are completely at this stage in control of the learning. It is an entirely independent process. The only thing you need is raw data to pull the keywords from. A source of information to be able to answer the questions that you have, and the skill to be able to do that type of evaluative thinking, and to build the knowledge structures. And that's the hardest part. That's the part that's going to be difficult. But that difficulty is desirable. The difficulty involved in doing this type of thinking here, this is desirable difficulty. So we want to be looking out for that. The second question that I often get is how is the AEM step different from pre-study? This is a very good question. The AEM step is a cognitive process that you should do to prime your brain But it might not happen in a single pre-study session or you might be able to do even more in a pre-study session pre-study refers to the act of studying before a main learning event such as most cases lectures or classes. If you have a lecture or a class you need to attend pre-study is the study you do before that to make that time the most effective or in some cases so you don't even need that and so technically it's possible to pre-study the entire topic to a hundred percent level accuracy before you even attend the class or the lecture. Is that beneficial and advantageous? It could be or it could not be. For example, if you have to, it's mandatory to attend class and to attend a lecture, then it's actually not time efficient to study everything to 100% beforehand because now you're wasting the time in class. Let's say that you've got four to five hours of class per day. You have to spend four to five hours of time there. If you're not learning during that time, it's actually a waste of time. So it would have been better to put yourself in a position where that class time is maximally beneficial Because you're having to spend that time anyway Whereas if you don't need to attend it and it's not mandatory Then maybe it is more beneficial to just study it at your own rhythm and your own pace completely Any blanks that you need to fill maybe you've got recordings that you can review to fill in all those blanks Or maybe there's other people that you can ask maybe there's office hours. You can attend there's other resources. Whatever it is you've got access to. So that's the idea of pre-study. It's purely a chronology thing. What you are doing when you're studying, in what order you do it in, that is where the Bounder System comes in. The aim step should always be the first step of your studying. So what that means is that if you're doing your pre-study, but you've only got 20 minutes, You should be doing the aim step in that 20 minutes. You may not be able to do a full aim step in that 20 minutes. You may have to do part of the aim step during the lecture even. Well, you may have to just do some kind of hybrid collection, mini consolidation processing step in the class, and then you complete your aim step after class to make the most of it, and then you'd move on to the shoot and into the skin. So you can see in this situation you did pre-study, but you didn't do the whole aim. Or alternatively, maybe you've got more time to pre-study, and now you're able to do the full aim step, and you've actually got time maybe to do even part of the shoot step as well. So you could do that. You could do part of the aim, you could do part of the shoot before the lecture or the class starts. In this case, you've done the pre-study, and you've done the aim, but it wasn't that pre-study and aim were the same thing. So again, aim, shoot, skin, the Pihata system is the order in which you encode information. And it should always follow this order because this is designed to be cognitively optimal. However, when you do this in terms of the actual timing, that is what pre-study refers to. So you could do the aim step and not do pre-study at all. This would be an example where you didn't have time and this is really not optimal. Like you should always be doing your pre-study. But you're in class, you didn't pre-study anything, you're in there, in class you're kind of frantically trying to just like process and piece together information, then afterwards you'd go through and now the notes and the processing you did during class, that would actually form just one of the resources that you're using to scrape to start the AIM step. Now there will be some kind of advantage because you've already done some sort of processing and probably some basic grouping at that stage already, so we've started hypothesizing structures and things like that. But it's gonna be very messy if we then decide to kind of skip the whole AIM step instead, 'cause then you're gonna have gaps and you'll end up wasting more time refining the structure and correcting mistakes that you missed the first time. So actually, after the lecture would be when you do the AIM step properly for the first time. So you see how this is actually quite different. In one situation where pre-study was there, the ideal situation, AIM step forms at least part of that, if not all of it. Whereas in the unideal situation, where you were just thrown into class or the lecture, then the AIM step is kind of happening later. And again, that's not now the optimal order in which we should be encoding. So I want you now to progress through the rest of the stage, have a look at the examples, and really put this information and these steps in context. You'll see that when I'm doing the AIM step, I'm not always doing it in exactly the same way. And for some subjects, it might look very different. But I want you to focus on the most important part, the trend, the similarity between them, which is that in every single instance, I am scoping through the information, I'm exercising order control, I'm comparing and evaluating and prioritizing in order to hypothesize structures of learning. I'm building the scaffold, I'm building that basic relational network, that net that provides me anchor points of relevance. So any new information that comes in from the AEM step onwards is going to be more relevant 'cause my brain is primed to connect with that information. As you get better and better at the AEM step, you'll be able to do bigger and bigger topics. You want to aim to be able to do one entire topic single go. It will still take you time to do it but it means that when you're pre-studying, when you're aiming, when you're priming yourself, you want to build a shallow but wide net because that gives you more possible anchor points and points of relevance. Your net is now wider. If you have a wide net that has holes in it and it's not too tight and you try to catch some fish, yes some fish will fall through but you'll be able to catch a lot of fish if your net is very wide, but if you've got a very, very small net, but that net is like very, very tightly woven, nothing, not even plankton is gonna escape that, when you put it in the water, you're actually not gonna catch very much. Yes, you'll catch lots at just the point that you put the net into, but actually overall, you're not really gonna catch much, and it's gonna be a lot more work to try to do that. So we're always trying to build up that knowledge in layers, and this AIM step is what creates that basic network. So consider that, think about that, and the type of thinking that I'm doing in each of the examples as I move through. 谢谢观

