# 5.1.0 Phase structure 
Things about this particular part of the program is that we're starting with cognitive retraining.

You'll notice that this part, the progression might not be quite as quick as it was in the high-yield phase.

The high-yield phase is all about quick-hitting, high-yield techniques that you can use straight away for immediate impact.

These are the things that if you're in a rush, you've got an exam coming up, you need to get better really fast, and you just need something that's going to work, that's where we've concentrated all of those techniques.

Again, if you're thinking that you need to learn all these advanced techniques that are in the later stages in order to get better, that's not the case at all.

It's actually going to have the opposite effect.

The best thing for you to do is just master the techniques that are in the high-yield stages.

That's what they're there for.

You'll notice that some of the techniques are upgraded throughout the growth phase, and some of them are kept much the same.

One great example would be spaced interleaved retrieval.

We're not really going to be doing much with that technique moving through the rest of the program, because that technique and all of its variations is so powerful as it is, and it's actually relatively easy to learn and easy to use, which is why we gave it to you at the very beginning.

Make sure we don't slip on those.

But for some other techniques, especially your note-taking skills and in-class techniques and the deep processing part of it, we're going to be merging, fusing, and upgrading a lot of those skills throughout the rest of this program.

You'll notice that the program is divided into a couple of different sections.

This first stage should be relatively quick if you've got already good mastery of the high-yield techniques.

It's more of a checklist, making sure we can bring it all together into a system.

But the focus really is on learning how we can learn from mistakes and turn experiences into valuable learning opportunities.

And this is done through a modified version of Paul's Experiential Cycle, which you're going to learn very, very soon.

The reason we start with this is because it is a pillar technique.

It's one of the most important techniques that we teach throughout this program.

Using this technique, you can dramatically reduce the amount of time it takes to learn a new skill, not just in this program, but in any skill or life.

In fact, many of the techniques that I personally use and now teach were created from thousands of iterations of doing Kolb's Cycle.

That's how powerful it is, and that's why we want to teach it to you nice and early.

The rest of the stage is more about just bringing things together, consolidating it, recapping all the things, and just showing how you can put it together into a cohesive system that you can then diagnose.

And that self-diagnosis process is the final lesson, which really is then one of the most important parts about learning, which is the ability to continuously monitor your techniques and your system, and then make adjustments.

That's what this first stage is about.

As you move throughout the rest of the stages, you'll see that we're now delving deeper and deeper and deeper in strategies and more advanced ways of tying deep processing with good note-taking that's cognitively beneficial, and bringing them You read and consume and take in more information.

All feeds through to develop better memory, better fluency, better depth, and a greater ability to use that knowledge.

But there is one other really important thing, which is that this growth phase involves cognitive retraining, which is really about unlearning old habits and replacing them with new, better But the process of learning or unlearning habits takes time and experience, often a lot of time and experience, and there isn't really any way to rush it.

If there was a faster way to teach these skills, trust me, we would teach them that way.

But because the growth phase stacks with each stage, building on the competencies of the last one, if you have mistakes from an earlier stage, they get carried forward into the later stages, and it becomes harder and harder and harder to solve them, because we then start getting all these new variables introduced, and it gets much harder to see where the problem truly arises from, and it's harder to therefore fix them.

So in the growth phase, we recommend taking it nice and slow.

This first stage, not so much, but especially as you progress through to the next stage and the ones after that, it's important that you get a good level of mastery for each stage, you feel quite confident with it, you feel quite comfortable, you feel like your technique is stabilizing, you're getting feedback, you're engaging in the community, you're not just staying inside your own mind.

Before moving into each successive stage, you will notice that in this stage and the later stages, there is redundancy, and that is deliberate.

We teach you certain things multiple times, so if you master them, correct it the second or the, you know, sometimes third time.

And so if you hear something, and you hear something explained, and you think, I've already heard a similar thing before, don't brush it off, take that as an opportunity to check, have I mastered that to the level that I need to for my stage, am I using it and applying it in my actual system, and have I reflected on that enough to know that I'm able to perform and execute on it in the real world for a higher level of confidence.

It's actually surprisingly common for us to see some learners say, hey, these techniques aren't working, I'm wasting time, they're not as effective as I thought they'd be, and when we sit down to go through it, they were so eager and excited to learn these new techniques, that they managed to blast through from the first lesson through halfway across the whole program in just four or five weeks.

And so of course, there isn't enough time for those new habits to have formed and all these issues start arising.

Now when we scroll all the way back and just get to the focus of the fundamentals, usually most of the problems that they were facing just evaporate.

And problems evaporating is something that we like.

So with that being said, go through the rest of the stage, and welcome to the world of cognitive retraining.