# 5.2.2 Stages of Learning
We've now almost covered this holy trinity of self improvement and skill development.

We've got marginal gains which helps us to find the path through which we can improve, help us with our motivation, make us see the progress that we are making, even when it doesn't seem like it's a huge, great progress that we may have expected or wanted.

Then we've got cobes which is the actual method through which we are making those gains and stacking and compounding those gains in a cycle.

So if you would assume in on that marginal gains curve, you would actually see multiple cycles of cobes going up and down to track that improvement curve.

The final part is being able to understand what kind of marginal gain you can expect as you develop different skills or rather as you progress through different skills at different levels of competency.

The word competency is something that we're going to be throwing around a lot.

You'll see it, talk about it in life clinics and coaching, you'll hear our coaches talk about it, you'll see people talk about it on our community.

The idea behind competency is that it's a spectrum, it's not just you're either competent and you can do it or you're incompetent and you can't.

When you learn a new skill and learning as a skill is one of the most complicated skills that you can learn, you're going to start off not knowing anything about it and then you're going to end up hopefully a master of it.

So there is this framework called the four stages of learning which is a very useful tool to show us what our progression will look like and what type of marginal gains we should be looking for.

Now I previously called this meslow's hierarchy of learning and that was corrected by one of our learners so thanks for catching me out on that.

It is closely often attributed to meslow but it is just called the four stages of learning with four stages of competency and it goes a little something like this.

We start off at the bottom with you, I, and that stands for unconscious incompetence.

So what that really means is that you cannot do it correctly but you also do not know that you cannot do it correctly.

You do not understand what correct looks like.

You don't know that maybe sometimes that correct exists.

Most people exist here for most skills.

For example this is the reason why if someone learns to do something then they can be very very confident about it very very early on because they don't actually see all the mistakes that they are making and they don't realize how much better they could actually be.

Unfortunately, sadly, when it comes to learning despite many, I guess everyone having gone through an education system for a decade plus normally, they still have unconscious incompetence when it comes to learning skills and learning strategies because the stuff that is taught in schools is often very outdated or it simply doesn't work or is just not taught at all.

So most of the time people are picking up these skills in a very sort of DIY way where they are just seeing their friends, they are watching some videos on the, they are putting random things together and they are creating something but they don't have a good understanding about what correct and optimum actually looks like.

They just have an idea about whether it kind of works for them or kind of does it but there is no comparison, there is no standard there.

So this is in a way the hardest place to be because you don't actually know what correct looks like and then if this is combined with overconfidence that is incredibly dangerous because now not only are you unaware of the fact that you are not good at it but you also close off to the fact that you could be good at it.

And an interesting thing that I have decided to do when seminars and workshops to break through this and if you are listening to this thinking like "uh yeah this is applying for everyone but it doesn't apply for me because I am special or whatever reason that you may think that these skills are actually easy for you while they are not easy for everyone else".

I want you to think about this.

Do you think a version of you 10 years from now would be more efficient and have learned more about how to learn effectively than the version of you today?

I mean assuming that you are interested in this and you keep trying to explore it like without this program do you think that you would be better in 10 years than you are today?

If the answer is yes it means that you already know that there are things that you don't know.

The idea with the program is that we are just kind of teaching it to all in one go and probably we are teaching you more than you would learn through your self discovery in 10 years because it took me 10 years just to go from a point of understanding the research and then training it to people consistently, let alone actually you know building the entire system for it.

When I did this essentially close to full time for the last decade.

So unless you are planning on spending that much time to figure it out for yourself, in 10 years you probably won't actually learn all of these things.

So unconscious incompetence is where we start from.

The next part is CI which is conscious incompetence and this is the threshold at which we can really start making improvements.

So I'm actually going to do this one in green because even though we are getting it wrong we have insight into it.

We can see that we are doing it wrong.

That's meant to be an eyeball by the way.

So we can actually see that we are doing it incorrectly.

We may not be able to do it correctly yet however we can identify that it's not correct.

We can maybe start seeing the patterns of incorrectness however no matter how hard we try we are still not able to do it correctly.

For some skills this period of conscious incompetence might last only 10, 15, 20 minutes.

You realize you are doing it wrong and then you learn the new way of doing it and now you can do the new way.

There are some skills that take much longer to do this.

Great example will be like athletics and instruments.

You can understand that you are playing something not quite right for a very very long time years in fact before you have actually trained yourself to the point where you can actually do it the way that you know it's meant to be done.

It's the same thing with learning and cognitive skills.

There are some learning and cognitive skills especially and deeper encoding that you may know how you are meant to be able to do it but when you actually try to do it you just not getting that kind of result it's not clicking for you in that way but it shouldn't take you years.

Normally those types of things in the halfway through the program you should be able to get a lot of those things clicking that will be around sort of that three months, four months period of your journey maybe.

Conscious incompetence we're sign a C that we're doing it wrong and we're aware of it and then conscious competence is where everyone wants to be at least because this is the point at which we are able to do it correctly if we apply effort.

This stage is actually very wide so this stage is very wide and then this stage is very wide.

So there's a difference between being able to do it correctly and then being able to do it correctly and consistently and easily and all of that spectrum falls within the single band of conscious competence.

So if we look at the lower level of conscious competence let me just expand this out a little bit.

We expand that out.

The lower level of conscious competence would be it takes a lot of effort and we do not have very good consistency.

So for example if we tried it ten times maybe we're only successful two out of those ten times but we can do it correctly.

We just can't do it correctly very often all the stars have to align and it takes a lot of concentration and a lot of effort.

At the top of conscious competency it takes very little effort to do it correctly and our consistency is very high.

So for example if we were to do this ten times we would maybe get it right nine out of ten times.

So at this point it's almost like second nature it's almost a habit and you can imagine that for some skills to go from here at the bottom all the way through to the top here can take a long time a lot of practice and a lot of reflection and a lot of what was that?

What did you say?

Colbs.

Yes.

A lot of Colbs and marginal gains to get there.

The golden, the promised land is at the very top.

Unconscious competence which is this UC and then here we're doing it correctly.

So here we're doing it correctly and here we're doing it correctly and it is a habit.

It is a second nature.

The effort that it requires is minimal or almost none.

In fact at this point it would take us effort to do it incorrectly.

So the way that we used to do it all the way back down here when we were unconsciously incompetent or consciously incompetent it would require us effort to actually do it that way again and that's where we want to be.

We have now rewired our brain.

We have undergone neuroplasticity.

We've made forced neuroplastic changes.

We've done cognitive retraining.

Whatever we want to call it.

We have developed a new habit and that's the best place to be it because now it's not taking extra concentration to do it.

We can start adding more techniques.

We can start refining it even further.

We can keep building the system.

So here are the important considerations about this.

Number one, if you have too many things that have not reached at least very high levels of conscious competence or unconscious competence it is going to be overwhelming.

Let's say that we've got five techniques and all five techniques aren't the low levels of conscious competence.

It requires a higher amount of effort and we've got a low consistency.

Well first of all because we've got a low consistency this can in some cases potentially reduce our motivation and it's important to realize that.

And also because we've got lots of effort if we've got that times five we may go into overload.

So we want to avoid this type of situation in the first place.

We never want to be working on so many skills when all of those skills require a higher amount of effort.

We only want to add new techniques into our system when our existing set of techniques are at least approaching the level of unconscious competence.

This is the reason why it takes so long to work through this program.

It is not just because we just love wasting your time or we want to hold you into this program for as long as possible.

We are trying to get you to develop these skills as quickly as you can.

It's just that it takes time because it takes time to develop new habits.

We don't want to say here are 44 new tech.

In fact, that's funny because the very very first time I ever ran it was actually a time management workshop.

The title of the time management workshop was 48 hours in a day and in that workshop and I think it's crazy for me to think about this now.

So I introduced 42 things, something like that 42 techniques for time management.

I have no idea what I was saying.

What do people remember from that workshop?

Probably nothing.

There are a lot of techniques and it was probably even more demotivating.

So you don't want to be in that situation.

You don't want to be giving yourself 40 different things to work on, all of which require a maximum effort and you give up on all of them.

Give yourself only a couple of things to work on, develop that confidence.

This is the reason why the focus list is limited.

This is the reason why we're trying to get you to focus on the focus task and focus this in clearing through that, focusing on developing and deepening the skill before you move on and focusing on doing your coves and experimentation on just a small number of things.

That is where skill development comes from, not pace, not volume.

So that's the first thing.

Don't have too many things that require too much effort.

Give yourself the time to consolidate before adding new things on and that's going to be a subjective decision.

That's going to be on you to monitor and moderate.

We can give you advice on that, but at the end of the day you're the one that understands how much effort it takes.

And so you're the one that's going to have to control that flow.

Going slow gets you far, going fast gets you not very far very quickly.

The next important thing is that when you're at each of the different stages, your marginal gains look different.

Let me say that again.

Your marginal gains will look different when you're at different stages of learning.

This is highly overlooked by most students.

When you are down here at the level of unconscious incompetence, your marginal gain is not that you can now do it correctly.

If you did something wrong, if there was a problem, if you made a mistake, which is a good thing, by the way, remember, if you made a mistake, marginal gain is not that you can now do it correctly.

Because that would be going from unconscious incompetence or conscious incompetence to conscious competence in a single jump.

Some people expect that they will be able to do it correctly and do it easily.

They get frustrated if they're doing it correctly, but it's not easy.

No, that would be going from here to here in a single go.

You can see that that's not a marginal gain at all.

The marginal gain when you are at unconscious incompetence is related to the things that get you closer to conscious incompetence.

Those marginal gains would involve becoming more open-minded, being less overconfident, being more willing to experiment, starting to recognize patterns of issues, starting to learn a little bit more about the theory of how to do it correctly versus incorrectly.

A lot of the time in the videos and these lessons, all I'm doing is I'm taking you to the point of conscious incompetence.

You take yourself to unconscious competence.

We give you the resources, the tasks, the activities, the guidelines, the feedback, all the things that aren't in the video lessons themselves.

A.K.A. really where you're making a real difference to your life.

That is the stuff outside, offline sometimes.

Sometimes not even on the platform, we facilitate it, but it's not happening online.

That's what's taking you to unconscious competence and building real skill.

In the videos, I'm trying to show you what's wrong and how to do it right theoretically.

Then when you're reaching into conscious incompetence, now your marginal gains are about being able to recognize your own mistakes, more consistently.

Being able to find more ways that you are doing it wrong.

If there are 20 ways that you could do it wrong, you are finding as many of those as possible.

As you get better and better through conscious incompetence, the number of mistakes you're making is reducing, but you're still not doing it right.

You can see how this could be multiple cold cycles in itself.

And then at conscious competence, you are now working through here.

You are lowering the amount of effort that you need and trying to build up your consistency.

That is the marginal gain at conscious competence.

In an unconscious competence, it's a habit what you're doing is you're now refining, you're individualizing, you're really personalizing.

It's really important to understand how you're working through these stages of learning for these different skills and how your marginal gains look different.

This is for skills.

When you're developing your knowledge, you do follow a similar pathway, but it can be confusing trying to map your understanding of knowledge to the four stages of learning, which I know is confusing because it's the four stages of learning.

But I try to think about this just for skill development.

I find that it's a lot more practical and understandable to try to map your knowledge in terms of higher order versus lower order learning and the type of knowledge structures that you're creating if you remember that solo taxonomy that we briefly talked about.

So keep these in mind, engage with the task and activities and all the other things that we've got around this lesson and moving forward and use your coves to build your marginal gains to work your way through these four stages of learning.