# 5.2.1 Practise guidelines
With doing cobs, because of the fact that what we're doing is so there are a number of common mistakes that people make with doing cobs, because of the fact that what we're doing is so precise and it's, you know, there's so many YouTube videos and resources out there on cobs experiential cycle.

But if you look at the way that we teach it versus the way it's taught there, you'll see it's very different.

It's not that they're teaching it wrong.

It's just that the version of it we are teaching is quite specialized for our particular purposes.

And as a result, when you're trying to learn the skills that we're teaching, this is frankly just better.

So try to do it in such a precise way.

There are some common things that can occur.

So I'm just going to address some of the most common ones now.

The first thing is in the experience.

The experience sometimes can be a little bit too broad or not really qualified.

So you never really want to have an experience that is just, I study biology because it's not specific enough.

Like if the experience you're talking about is huge and already when we're reflecting on it, that's going to magnify and volume.

Like already, one sentence experiment could become a multi paragraph reflection.

So if your one sentence experience is actually like an entire week's worth of experiences, you're not actually going to be able to reflect on it to the level of depth that you need.

You want your experience to be fairly specific, fairly isolated, fairly targeted so that when you're doing your experiment eventually, it is targeted.

So you're fixing it in a targeted way at a time.

So even if you've got a big experience that's going wrong, you want to break that experience down into specific processes and target each of the core processes one at a time.

So start with the one that you think is maybe going to give you the most, most improvement.

The other thing is using an outcome as an experience.

When you use an outcome as an experience, there isn't actually anything to reflect on.

So the common example of this is I did a test.

It went badly.

This is actually not an experience.

Doing badly in a test is a result.

The experience was either sitting the exam or preparing for the exam.

So that would have to be the thing that you reflect on instead.

If you instead reflect on just doing badly as an outcome, there is nothing to unpack there.

It would just be, I got my results.

I guess in a way that's an experience like, what did you do?

I opened my email.

I clicked the inbox.

I saw the result.

But that's not really what we are worried about.

We're worried about why we didn't do well for our result.

And so we're thinking, okay, was the issue in the exam or was it in the preparation for the exam?

And depending on what we think, we would reflect on that process.

And again, we may realize, well, I didn't know enough about how I prepared to even do the reflection.

Then that's a self-awareness issue.

So maybe it's something to pay attention to while you're preparing for the next exam.

Would it do your coves more frequently or more regularly so that you don't miss that window?

For example, if you prepared for an exam two months ago, you got the result back today, you want to do the coves for it.

That's probably been too long.

So you have to do the coves in the next one.

If you think the issue was in the exam, you weren't performing very well.

And you remember the exam was very fresh and you had a good self-awareness.

Then you could do the coves on the in-exam experience to isolate where the root causes would have been.

The only situation where the outcome as an experience would be valid is if the thing you're concerned about is the way you've reacted to getting that bad outcome.

So let's say that the experience is not just, I got a bad result, but I got a bad result and my entire day was ruined.

That is now different because the experience is, yes, I got the result.

But what we're focusing on is what was the reason behind why I've reacted in such a huge way, was I not able to emotionally regulate myself.

So if that's the thing that you wanted to focus on, you could do a reflection on that part of it.

But in most situations, we don't want to have outcomes as experiences.

We want to have processes as an experience and it should be relatively recent to the experience so that's fresh in our heads.

When it comes to the reflection, one of the most common things is that the reflection is too brief.

Sometimes people will just do the reflection like a checklist.

Like I'll answer this question, I'll answer this question, I've done this part, alright done.

That's not the point.

We are mining here.

We're mining here.

We need to dig through that experience so extract as much information as possible.

Making your experience broader, deeper, more detailed and letting yourself actually elaborate on it is going to be for your own benefit.

If you treat it like a checklist activity, you're not going to extract enough information from it.

And actually, the really, really big problem with this is that the people that tend to do this as a checklist activity often don't have good self-awareness.

The people that have good self-awareness and lots of insight, they usually do this very well and they're quite keen on doing this because they already have so many thoughts about what went wrong that they want to document it all down and then do this process to extract that information.

The people that do not have that insight don't see the point in doing this because they're limited by only what they know.

And so then they just do the checklist and then they do the code and they're like, "Oh, I wasn't helpful.

This isn't working for me."

You have to really commit to it and let yourself elaborate.

If you struggle with elaborating on it, that leads to the other common issue, which is that the reflection is too superficial.

You can have a long reflection and it could still not be meaningful.

The example that I gave in the initial video where someone is just being like, "Oh, I feel terrible.

I feel terrible.

I'm not really talking about the process itself."

That would be an example where it could be long but not very helpful.

The type of reflection that's helpful is the type of reflection that examines the processes that you used and how you felt and what you thought about the processes.

Sometimes, actually very often, it's not easy to know why or how a process went right or wrong when we're doing the process, especially if it's a new thing that we're learning.

One of the, in a way, a cognitive emotional trick that we can use is we can actually use our emotions as a window.

That's an incredibly hippie thing for me to say.

Use your emotions as a window to your soul.

No, really, sometimes we have an emotional response to certain cognitive processes that are just below that level of consciousness.

We're not really sure about what's going on.

However, we do remember we had this weird feeling about it.

We didn't feel comfortable with it.

It was kind of difficult.

It made us a little anxious, it stressed us out.

It was quite challenging.

We felt quite frustrated.

It's often easier to remember the feeling and then used a feeling as a springboard to try to dig into what was the process that made us feel that way.

That can actually indicate where the problem was.

It's like a marker, an indicator.

We can follow that indicator to try to see where it takes us, like a compass, for example.

Emotions can be an easier thing to reflect on when we're using a brand new process.

I know, again, some people, and I don't know, in the most not-sixist way, I find there's a lot more with males, especially teenage boys, the tendency to not want to really dive into the emotional aspects of it and things like that.

It feels very woo-ee, and I know, but it's actually really important because it can be a great indicator to, I didn't find, the metacognitive processes that help us to improve.

When it comes to the abstraction, the most common issue by far is being too theoretical, rather than actually observing through the reflection.

Another common issue related to that is the abstraction is not an observed hypothesis, but instead it is simply more of the reflection.

This often happens when there wasn't enough information in the reflection to find those trends, and so we kind of end up rambling on in the abstraction.

We don't really want that.

If there's not enough information, we want to go back to the reflection and pat it up, and then make sure that the abstraction is quite focused.

Boom, boom, boom.

These are the reasons, these are the thoughts that we have around why we have this problem.

These are the trends and the tendencies that I've observed in my behavior and my approach and my strategy.

You want to make that relatively clean and fairly concise so that your experiment is easy to follow.

You don't want to have this huge big tumble to try to craft an experiment from, because that alone is going to be quite challenging.

In the experiment, the common issue here is that the experiment is often, there's too many of them, or they're not targeted enough, or they're too intentional rather than being actionable.

However, most cases, the experiment is fine if the abstraction is fine.

When there are problems with the abstraction, we have to end up just like making things up for the experiment, and that's where it falls apart.

So it might look like the experiment didn't work, but it's actually because the abstraction wasn't observational.

It was too just like random ideas here and there.

The final issue, which is the fact that it's non-cyclical, this is another very common problem that occurs with people in their coves.