# 5.4 Common Traps
So in order to do the right thing, one of the first things that we need to make sure we do is to not do the wrong thing.

So there are some traps that I see students fall into time and time again.

Across the thousands of students that I've worked with, I see these three traps coming up every single year with hundreds of different students falling into the exact same trap that is completely avoidable that can potentially change the course of your academic success and studying ability completely.

So let's make sure that we don't fall into these traps to start with.

So these are the three traps here.

So the first thing is to avoid spirals.

Now what do I mean by avoiding a spiral?

Well as you can see, this here is a spiral that continues to go down and down and this is the unfortunate student who was caught on the spiral about to enter into it.

So what is a spiral?

A spiral is when you enter into something because you think it solves an immediate next problem.

However, in doing so, it robs you of the opportunity to develop further.

So it's basically using a technique that helps you now but sabotages you in the future, often in terms of the amount of time that it ends up taking.

So a great example for this would be flashcards.

Flashcards are useful when used right but I often see students misusing flashcards completely and they end up in this endless flashcard grind where they have hundreds or maybe even thousands of flashcards to get through and then it gets to the point where they're so many flashcards and it takes so long to get through the flashcards that you don't even end up getting through the flashcards anyway.

But because you have this huge mountain of flashcards to get through, you don't actually have time to then invest in a different technique that would solve your flashcard problem.

So you can see how using flashcards to help you memorize right now if done incorrectly would actually rob you of so much available time that you then don't have the opportunity to change later.

And the worst part is that often these systems get built that are dependent on it.

So you do heap the flashcards and therefore you're dependent on getting through those flashcards in order to do the right level of learning.

But because you don't have the time to get through all of them, you don't get the right level of learning.

So we're compromising not only our quality of learning but the amount of actual free time that we have to do any of it as well.

So think about the consequences of the next step.

So if we take a moment to think about the technique that we're going to use, how much time it invests, we want to ask ourselves a question.

If I get better at using this technique, does it save me time or will it add time on?

So it's quite difficult to know this without having a deeper understanding of the techniques that you will end up using.

Flashcards is one where you may think that doing flashcards will end up saving a lot of time, but actually because of the nature of flashcards, it requires repetition, usually at least three to five times of repetition for it to really stick through pure repetition and rote learning at least.

So that means that every flashcard that you create, which might take you just, let's say, one minute to create one flashcard, if it takes you another, let's say, 30 seconds to later in the future, then we're really adding on something like three minutes per flashcard.

So across all of your different subjects, if you have 100 flashcards, which is honestly a lot less than some people have even for just one subject, then we've added on 300 additional minutes of actual studying that we need to do to get through that.

And with flashcards, you do more and more and more and the time increases faster.

For every one flashcard you add, you add three more minutes of time.

So it quickly becomes disproportionate, the amount of time that you have to spend on it, and that's when you have thousands of flashcards that you're not even getting through and you just give up on it and you don't even know why you make them anymore, but you can't do anything else because you don't know how else to do it and it's just this enormous time vampire that sucks all of your free time and you're not even learning it properly.

So that's a very common example of a spiral that should be avoided.

Before using the technique, really understand and evaluate why does the technique work, how does it work, and is it going to save me time in the future or not.

And I'm going to make sure that everything that I teach you, inherently, if I teach it to you, it does not create a spiral.

And I've really spent a lot of time figuring out what needs to be in this course and I would say that the stuff that you're going to learn in this will be the best next step.

So take whatever you're doing now and if you just replace it with the elements that we teach you in the course, it's going to be, in almost every single situation, better than whatever you're probably doing at the moment.

Just chances are, because again, I'm focusing on the 90% of the stuff that really matters.

The second issue is this bandwagon fallacy here.

So the bandwagon fallacy is actually a logical fallacy, which means that it's something that doesn't make logical sense.

In this situation, we're talking about studying techniques that everyone uses that people use simply because of the fact that other people use it.

So bandwagon fallacy refers to justifying something based on the fact that that's the norm.

So if slavery was the norm, it would be a bandwagon fallacy to say that therefore it's okay to have a slave, which by the way, it's not.

So bandwagon fallacy when it comes to studying is like saying, because everyone else writes notes this way, I also should write notes that way.

The thing is that a lot of the ways that people study, again, because we've never been taught properly, ends up being wrong.

And so again, the way that I'm going to teach you is very different to how you may have learned in the past or techniques that you might be aware of.

It's inherently a little bit uncomfortable.

There's going to be a little bit of scariness to applying a technique that's unfamiliar and just generally a little bit insecure, this feeling of trying something new and testing the waters out.

I'm going to do my best to make sure that that is as smooth as possible.

But just remember that just because it's different doesn't make it worse.

In fact, in some cases, being different is actually better because it means you get a different outcome to everyone else.

So if you don't want to be like everyone else who studies 10, 20 hours to get a certain result and you'd rather study four or five hours, you have to do things a little bit different and that means not jumping on the bandwagon that everyone else is on.

The final issue that I see, the final common trap, is this puzzle that I'm sure we're kind of all familiar with where you have to have the wooden blocks that are like a cube or a circle or a triangle and you fit them in the right hole.

The right cube for the square hole and the circle and the circle hole and the triangle and the triangle hole.

And the idea is to make it match.

But what I see a lot of people doing is taking that cube and just trying to ram it into the triangle hole.

And if you ram it hard enough into that triangle hole, it will eventually fit but the wood is going to be all chipped and you will have damaged the triangle shape and it's going to be a complete mess.

So the idea here is don't use a technique that inherently doesn't work but try to force it to work purely just by trying harder.

There is a time when effort should be directed and put in and invested where it's going to give you a good return and then there are other times where purely just trying harder isn't going to work and we need to really think carefully about that.

So again, flashcards.

If we find out that in the first month or two we have so many flashcards with that we're not actually able to cover it and in fact it's doing us more harm than good, we need to then say, okay, it's time to stop and re-evaluate or think, am I using the technique correctly?

If you're not using it correctly, then we switch.

We use it correctly and then if we do that, maybe it's easier and we don't need to spend so much effort.

Or maybe we're already using it correctly and in that case, the technique doesn't work for us.

So some of the techniques that are introduced in this course, they're going to be easier to apply.

Some of them are going to be more difficult.

So you need to ask yourself, are you using the technique correctly and is that the reason, the fact that you're not using it correctly?

If you're not using it correctly, is that the reason why it's potentially not giving you the results that you want or is it because the technique itself doesn't work?

Again, you don't have to worry about that with the stuff in this course but anything that you hear anywhere else, it's up to you to evaluate that and make that judgment because I honestly hear a lot of bad advice floating around out there that I genuinely believe makes things worse for a lot of students, especially when it comes to the way that students write notes.

Often, you'll see people writing lots and lots and lots of copious notes that take up a lot of time that they sometimes don't even read through and after writing the notes, they don't even know what they've written.

So they spend hours and hours writing notes that don't provide them any learning and yet they're so obsessed and secure in the idea of writing these notes that they are trying to forcibly fit the cube into the triangle hole when actually it's time to stop, re-evaluate and think, am I using the right technique for the right purpose or do I need to change?

So these are just some of the very simple, straightforward but extremely painfully common mistakes that I see so many students making every single year and if you end up falling into some of these traps, it's just that much harder to correct yourself and bring yourself out of that.

So best to just be aware of that to begin with, keep that in mind when you're moving forward.

So maybe you can already think of certain things that you're using in your own practice.

Maybe negative spirals that you've fallen down, maybe the flash card thing applies to you, maybe techniques that you use simply because everyone else uses them even though you don't actually know how it's meant to work or techniques that you're putting heaps and heaps of effort into and it doesn't seem to be giving you the results that it's meant to be giving you.

Maybe you're not doing it right or maybe it's that you're trying to fit the wrong thing into the wrong size or shape hole.

So that's the few common mistakes and traps that you need to avoid and let's go through a checklist of all the traps and also a checklist of all the right things that you should be doing, the basic techniques and strategies that will form that nice solid surface level foundation that we can start building on.