# 5.6.3 Logical Alignment
How was it that I was able to know that Sam would encounter the issues that he did, when I first met him at the beginning of his second to last year of high school?

So there are a few things that I asked him, and when you look at it this way, it's almost the inevitable consequence that he ended up the way that he did, because it just doesn't logically make sense that he would have succeeded.

So let's look at it in a few different categories.

The first thing is cognitive, and then notes, and then it's revision.

So this is talking about the way that Sam was going about his studies, cognitively, aka what's going on inside his brain, in terms of the thoughts that he's having, and was very passive.

In fact, he actually didn't really seem to have any idea about how it was that his learning was actually occurring.

He simply would read things, and it just kind of would work on autopilot.

He would read, he would kind of learn, he'd listen, he'd sort of understand.

There wasn't anything that he was actually doing with his brain to make himself learn effectively.

And so this is worrying, because when you're thinking about trying to get more efficient and study more effectively, if you're not even aware of what your brain is currently doing, how are you going to make a plan to make it better?

It's kind of like trying to renovate a house without even knowing what the house already looks like.

The idea is fine, the intention is fine, it will cost a lot of money and effort, and the willingness to do that is fine, but at the end of the day, if you just don't know what you're doing, you don't know what you're doing.

So that was a big red flag, was that he had no idea about how he was thinking, and what actual thoughts were going through his mind, and what were the things that he was doing that was contributing to him being able to learn effectively, and what were the things that he wasn't doing, or the things that were holding him back.

So, complete lack of deep understanding about this, apart from just the very surface level stuff that he will talk about in terms of just, oh I go home and try to look through my notes, and if I ask him the question, well when you look through the notes, what are you actually trying to do with that information, it was just, well I'm just reading it and trying to understand.

But trying to understand is not a very specific action.

It's kind of like me telling you, try harder to be smart.

It's like, okay, you know, as much effort as you might want to put in, it just doesn't work that way.

So that's one aspect.

The next thing is the way that he was writing notes.

Again, he was writing notes very passively.

He would write all of these very long, extremely linear notes.

And it was basically like he, you know, you could have looked at him and thought that he was basically a human photocopier.

And it was weird when I asked him about this, the way that he was writing notes, and this is super common as well when you talk to most high school students.

There are all of these notes that get written, but then there are notes that he rarely even reads again.

By the time he's finished writing the notes, he doesn't feel like he learned a lot from it.

The notes are in a very time-consuming format to write everything down.

He often has to re-read and re-write the notes multiple times.

And he would often say that just because he's studied it, he wouldn't know anything because he hasn't gone through his notes again.

And the most concerning part is that for him, there was nothing wrong with that.

It was very normal to spend hours and hours making notes.

And yet, it was expected that he wouldn't actually know anything because he hadn't gone through his notes again.

But then the question is, why do you need to go through the notes again to know something?

Didn't you just spend hours learning and writing about those notes?

Shouldn't you have a good level of understanding a week later if that's how much time that you dedicated to it?

Or do you truly think that your brain is so limited that that's the capacity that you have to learn?

So, I can pretty much guarantee you that if you are intelligent enough to even sign up to this course, you definitely are capable of learning much more effectively when you are using your brain the right way.

I can promise you that.

So, the way that I was writing notes was super linear and the most concerning part was that he just didn't seem to be aware of how illogical it was that he's dedicating all of his time to doing something that he already knows doesn't work.

And then with revision, are we surprised that even the revision was pretty passive?

Sam was like a professional, like a past paper machine.

He would just go through past paper questions again and again and again and again.

And when I asked him, how many questions do you need to go through before you're satisfied?

He didn't really have any idea.

He just went through enough until he just felt like it was enough.

Which, I think you're seeing that Frank here is very non-intentional, it's very passive and it just shows that Sam had really no idea what he was doing.

He was just doing what other people were already doing around him.

He had fallen into that bandwagon fallacy, assuming that the right way to do things was the way that everyone else was doing it.

And he had also entered into this very time-consuming spiral of writing notes, not thinking about things actively, and then not revising in a good way either, simply just relying on all these different past paper questions.

And so, one of the things that, in fact, one of the very first things that he said to me when I asked him what his concern with studying was, was that he told me that he really struggles with certain curveball-type exam questions.

The questions that they ask you, where they almost seem like they're trying to trick you, and you think, hey, we didn't learn this in class, I never learnt this, I don't know how I'm meant to know this.

Those curveball questions are becoming more and more common in modern assessments.

In fact, in recent years, we've seen, for whatever reason, internationally, there's a shift in education, and we're trying to challenge students more and more and more.

And so we throw more of these curveballs.

And so the thing is, if you're relying on just doing an endless amount of past paper questions, there's no way you can prepare for the curveballs, because you will be relying on the fact that you would have seen the curveball before.

And kind of by definition of the curveball question, it's a question that we're not familiar with.

It's a way of applying our knowledge that we haven't thought of before.

So a good revision strategy actually is meant to target those areas of weakness very efficiently.

It shouldn't take that much time to be able to answer curveball questions very easily, just as easily as any other question.

So there are a number of factors here that when I looked at, I just thought, and I think when you look at it as well, when you take this way of doing things, and what we're aiming for is to be in that top 1%, for example, if that's your goal, if that's what we're aiming for, do you think it's logical that someone who is studying this passively, without any real control about what they're doing, without any reason and knowledge about how they're contributing to their results, and without actually having any insight into where they're going wrong and what they're doing right, is it logical for this person to achieve results that are any different from anyone else's results?

And when I look at this, I think it doesn't make any sense.

And this is why when I ask these types of questions to students, often students have very similar answers, and often a year or two later they have the same regrets as well, because they realize that it just doesn't make sense to do something that doesn't work, and to try to improve it, without even knowing what they're improving, why they're improving it, how they're improving it, how long that will take, and where it's going to lead them.

So this is another reason why just relying on those haphazard tips just doesn't get you very far.

But really importantly, we need to realize that this is extremely, extremely common.

And the way that I like to explain this is, imagine if you were playing the violin.

And you've played the violin for a really long time, and so you think you're pretty good at it.

You're pretty good at playing the violin.

Now the violin is a very technical instrument.

Some people would say that the violin is one of the most difficult instruments to learn how to play effectively.

So if you are someone who has spent years learning to play the violin, and then you see someone else who has just picked up the violin for the first time, it's natural to think who is going to be better.

But think about this for a moment.

Imagine you had a hundred different people in a room.

And inside this room, all 100 of these people got given a violin.

Now let's just assume that none of these people had ever even heard of a violin.

None of them knew how to play it.

They had absolutely no knowledge about the violin.

Maybe for example, these are kids.

So we've got a group of kids in a room that we gave them all a violin.

And we don't teach them how to play it.

We just give it to them.

We keep them in this room for like four or five years.

And all they've got is this violin.

And somehow they're staying alive.

At the end of these five years, do you think these kids would be able to play the violin or not?

Probably they would be able to play, at least somehow.

They may not be using their technique exactly the right way, but they'll be able to produce a sound.

They'll be able to do something with it.

Maybe they're all playing it like a cello.

But the idea is that after spending five years in a room with a violin, they're going to figure out something.

And the other interesting thing is that most of these kids will probably be playing in a very similar way.

Because if one way of playing worked for one person, then their friends are going to copy that.

And then their friends are going to copy that.

So these techniques will end up distributing throughout this group of 100 kids.

So you're going to get 100 kids that are all playing the violin with a very similar technique.

But compared to someone that was professionally trained at playing the violin for five years, do you think that these kids would be able to play better or more beautifully than the person that was professionally trained?

Probably not.

Because while the person that was professionally trained gets taught the right technique from the very beginning, and all they have to do is practice to get better, the kids will have spent the first two years probably figuring out how to hold the bow.

And they probably still got it wrong.

So there's so much trial and error that goes into figuring out how to play this violin, that even though the same amount of time has passed, and maybe they've done the same amount of practice, the actual skill level is completely different between the two.

Now, if you were to assess this five-year professionally trained violinist, and you do a musical grading exam of them, and you listen to how beautifully and well that they can play, and how good their technical skills are, do you think it's fair to use the same assessment to judge these kids that have been horribly locked up for five years with a violin?

And if this is reminding me of your childhood, I'm sorry about that.

Do you think it's fair to assess these kids with that same set of metrics that we're using to assess someone who's professionally trained?

No, it doesn't make sense.

It's just not fair.

These kids are going to fail that.

Every single one of these, all 100 of these kids are going to absolutely bomb the assessment.

So if we want to make sure that at least some of these kids are passing, that means that whatever assessment we give them needs to be easy enough so that when we get to the bell curve, at least a proportion of them are passing.

And maybe some of them will do really well.

But the idea is that this assessment that we give them needs to be easy enough to allow that.

If we gave them the assessment that was as challenging as it would be for a professionally trained violinist, these kids would have no chance.

Now let me ask you this question.

From the moment you stepped into school, were you formally taught the most efficient techniques through which to learn and study?

Did you practice the right technique from the beginning?

Or did you spend several years, over a decade maybe even, just trying to figure out how to hold the bow properly?

Most people, in fact almost everyone, goes through their entire academic life throughout all of high school without ever really having been formally taught how to actually play their main instrument that they're meant to be assessed on for the rest of their life, a.k.a. how to use their brain in order to study effectively.

We're just not taught that.

And as a result, the assessments that we're given are set at the standard so that it's difficult for all of these people who have never been formally taught.

They're not the most difficult possible assessment.

They're not the most difficult possible assessment.

They're the assessments that are difficult for students who have never been taught to learn and study with the right technique.

So that means if you learn the right technique, you are able to increase your results massively because you used to be one of these kids, but now you got taken out of there and you are getting formal professional instruction by the violinist.

When you go back into this group and you compare against all these other kids who are still trying to figure out if they play their bow with their hands or with their feet, you can just be rocking it up and absolutely crushing whatever assessment that they end up giving you.

And this is the beauty of it.

It's the beauty of a really weird system in that because most people are not taught how to study effectively, you, by actually learning the techniques that work the most effectively, have the opportunity to completely overcome your academic challenges, usually by leaps and bounds.

And this is the part that most students don't believe.

But this is the results that we're consistently getting, is that students that actually spend the time to learn the skills the right way are able to overcome the challenges of the academic assessments to a disproportionately high level, which means that they are succeeding a lot more than whatever effort that they're putting into it.

So you can see how much sense it makes to learn the proper technique rather than just doing what everyone else is doing in this room.

Now, you might think this only applies for violin.

It doesn't apply for something like studying or learning.

The violin is such a technical instrument.

There are so many specific rules and structures around it.

It's not the same for learning.

Learning is a mental process.

It's more organic.

I've lived in my brain for my whole life.

I know how to use it.

I know myself.

This is what some students would think.

Well, let me ask you.

Is that the case for anything else in your life?

If you were playing a sport, would you expect that someone who was never taught how to play a sport would be better than someone who was professionally trained from the very first moment?

Would you expect that a random person who has just been playing chess with their group of friends and using whatever techniques their friends are using to beat a world-ranked chess player?

Would you expect that someone who's picked up your favorite video game for the first time and just played the demo free mode in the same level again and again would be better than a professional pro gamer who's dedicated hours and hours learning the right strategies to play the game?

The thing is that, yes, natural talent does go a certain way.

Maybe there's a chess prodigy that at the age of five has the raw intelligence and talent and just ability to outplay the top-ranked chess player.

But it's a one-in-a-billion chance.

Unfortunately, you're probably not that prodigy who just was so naturally gifted that you're able to overcome all the other people that are learning it the right way.

But the good news is that it doesn't matter.

You don't need that overwhelming talent.

What you need is just to invest in the right techniques to train your brain to start thinking in the way that it's meant to be thinking and studying a lot more effectively and graduate beyond the rat race of what everyone else is doing to get the abnormal results that you want to achieve.

