# 5.6.4 Confidence
So why is it that so many of us are confident in our studying ability, despite the fact that so few of us have ever actually learned how to study properly?

Well, part of that has to do with those standardized assessments.

Remember, the assessments were created to be relatively difficult for a group of students that never learned how to study.

So if you do one of those, you might think that you're pretty good, and some of you really won't be.

But really, you're only going to appear to a group of students that don't know how to study.

If you want to compare yourself to someone with learning potential, you'd realize that you're underutilizing that potential in a musical universe.

In fact, when we do the deep evaluations, or formally looking at the efficiency of students compared to the research that tells us about how their brain can work, we find that most students are 50% below in their studying efficiency.

So most students are actually hovering around 20% of their academic potential.

What that means is that for you, you can use this, and it's viable that you can double, triple, or quadruple your studying efficiency, which means that you can be spending half, one third, or a quarter of the time studying to get the same result or data.

So it seems a little bit unbelievable, and you may be skeptical, and I can understand where you're coming from.

I'd be skeptical if I was in your position as well.

Having said that, think about a professional athlete.

Do you think it's viable that a professional athlete, who is proficiently trained, can be 2, 3, or 4 times better than an amateur who's only been playing around with their friends?

Probably the answer is yes.

So when we compare it that way, it's really clear that someone that's had proper training is vastly superior to someone that hasn't had proper training.

So remember that it's a skill just like any other, and if we haven't learned the proper technique, there's no real reason for us to believe that we would be that good.

But there's another component to this overconfidence, and that is actually a bit of a human tendency.

So, in fact, this is so widely seen as a phenomenon of human psychology, and it even has its own name.

If you were to ask drivers on the road, how good their driving skill is, 90% of drivers would say that they're an above average driver. 94% of college professors believe that they're an above average teacher.

So obviously, that doesn't mathematically make sense.

So there's a fundamental aspect of human psychology that's at play here, and it causes us to generally believe that we're overconfident.

And we're not just overconfident about everything, we're overconfident about the things that we tend not to have a lot of knowledge about.

When we have a little bit of information about it, we tend to be overconfident.

So, most of us, we've learned a little bit about driving, but compared to everything that there is to know about driving, you don't have a stunt car driver reversing at 100 kilometers an hour down a cliff doing a J-turn and drifting around a corner.

Most of us can't do that.

So our knowledge of driving is limited a little bit, and the rest of it is just time that we have to experience our limited knowledge in driving.

And so it gives us a false sense of security in thinking that we're a better driver than we actually are.

Same thing with professors.

Even though being a professor and educating is their job, they're not actually comparing each other on their teaching ability.

They normally compare themselves based on their expertise in the field that they're teaching.

So, even though a professor, their job is to educate, relative to the amount of educational training that they receive, their field expertise is a lot greater.

So a professor of microbiology is going to be usually in the top tier of knowledge when it comes to microbiology.

But when it comes to actual teaching, the level of training is usually not that high.

So, this phenomenon, which is so common, is actually called the Dunning-Brugge effect.

So this graph here is a graph of the Dunning-Brugge effect.

The yellow line on the y-axis represents confidence, while the x-axis represents knowledge.

So what we can see is that the knowledge is the highest at two points, here and here.

But they are very different aspects of the graph.

So, while maximum confidence occurs here and then here, the amount of knowledge that they have at the time is very, very different, as you can see.

So, what this is really telling us is that when we first learn something, we are gaining knowledge very quickly.

So, relative to what we used to know, so for example, right here at the beginning, zero, zero, zero knowledge, zero confidence, that's like me saying, hey, how confident are you in the microbiology that you're thinking about?

You'll probably say, you know, Justin, you're probably not so confident.

Because you're not a rocket scientist and you're not Elon Musk.

So, as a result, your confidence will be low because your knowledge is very low.

Basically, no knowledge.

But, when you learn a little bit, your confidence increases.

Because, relative to nothing, we don't know a lot.

You learn a little bit more, and then you've doubled your knowledge.

A little bit more, you've doubled your knowledge.

So it's very easy to take limits and balance the knowledge relative to what you already knew, because of the fact that you knew so little.

If you had one brain of rice, and I give you two brains of rice, you've doubled your brains of rice, but you still only have two brains of rice.

So, the confidence goes up very, very quickly in the initial parts of the knowledge.

And this peak that's reached right here is actually given a very scientific name.

And this is generally a very formal, real-life name that's given to this point when we learn.

At this point, we're at this point where we're feeling proud of it.

Stupid.

Yes, that's a very good name.

So, the people at the top of that stupid, these are like your anti-fans.

These are the people that know very, very small about science and technology, and they have a very high level of confidence because they've learned what they used to know, which was almost nothing.

They know a lot.

After we learn a little bit more, our confidence starts to go down, because now we realize that there is so much more to know.

So, this might be familiar to you as the hierarchy of confidence, where at the beginning, we're unconsciously incompetent.

We know so little, and we don't even know what we don't know.

When we're at the bottom here, and we're feeling like our confidence is really low, that means that we know enough to realize that we don't know more.

And this is actually called the Valley of Despair.

And this is often where a lot of Ph.D. students will end up being.

So, the time scale here is important to realize is that from here to here, there's only years.

Years worth of knowledge.

And after a few million dollars for years, we realize, you know, there's a lot we don't know.

But the idea is that still, there's a lifetime of knowledge.

And then, as we go, we gain more and more knowledge, slowly accumulating it to the point where we truly are an expert, and our confidence is well-deserved.

This slope is actually called the Slope of Enlightenment.

And to get to this point here, we're really looking at decades of years.

There's a lot of years spent to get to that point where our knowledge truly should be as confident as it was six months or one year into learning about this.

So, this is a very widely seen phenomenon.

And it shows that there's a way that we can calibrate our level of confidence based on just objectively assessing how much knowledge we have.

So, if your confidence about studying is really high, but the only amount of training you'll receive in studying is from you talking to your friends, watching some YouTube videos, and reading some articles, your confidence may be the studying equivalent of being an anti-vaxxer.

And no one wants to be in anything equivalent of being an anti-vaxxer.

So, what you really need to think about is, in what ways that I am not stupid?

In what ways am I unnecessarily confident?

In what ways am I confident without having any real expertise to back it up?

So, often we think, we've spent years studying.

And I've spent years kind of experimenting with things.

But actually, if you go through a four-year course in a family training for a period of years, and then you dive into the research and you look at that for years, and you experiment thousands of times every single year in different iterations and combinations, and a decade later, you come out the other end feeling like you really, truly understand what it is to learn effectively, then you can have a 9 or 10, 9 or 10 out of 10 confidence about studying and learning.

But if what you've done is just kind of have chats here and there and read some articles and watch some YouTube, the drop in level of knowledge on the subject is very, very, very small.

Probably so basic that there isn't even any modern research on it because of the fact that it's all about the views.

So, in that case, you may actually be on Mount Stupid.

And it's not a bad thing because it means that you've realized where you are and it allows you to take that and calibrate yourself.

There's always been aspects that we need to be confident about, but if we're not aware of what we shouldn't be so confident about, it opens our mind to accepting new information and advice and actually trying new things because now we're not so bloody, we're not so full of ourselves.

And if I had realized this earlier on, I probably would have saved six or seven years of my personal development just by getting out of my own way.

So, trust me, I was on Mount Stupid for longer than probably all of you.

And for me, just to give you a reference, I mean, at this point, I've been learning about this type of thing casually and then fully trained and then really intensively looking at the research and reading through thousands of articles and experimenting really vigorously in my own life as well as teaching students about this for several years now.

So, I would say that I've got about 10 or just over 10 years of pretty excellent experience just learning about this.

I would say that I'm around here at the moment.

I think that I'm around here.

And I definitely remember the point when I was down here and I definitely remember my five years of high school, my four years of university when I thought I was up here.

And let me tell you that I was vastly mistaken.

And the techniques that I'm going to teach you throughout this course are things that I learned after I came down from Mount Stupid.

These are the things that 90% underneath the water that make up the bulk of the iceberg that actually make up Mount Stupid.

