# Cave theory
## Cave brain in a modern world

Our brain is the same as it has been since caveman times, but modern learning is very different. The way we tend to learn now is deeply influenced by the formal education system and the industrial revolution.

As a result, the way many people learn is disconnected from how our brains want to and prefer learning. Our _cave theory_ tells us we need to learn how the brain likes to learn, which makes learning more effective, engaging, and even enjoyable!

### Techniques overview

> [!transcript]- Transcript
> In order to figure out the best way to use our brain, we need to figure out what our brain was designed and built for. So if you think about modern education and modern studying, you might think about reading books, writing notes, going to class, but these are all very recent things. If you think back way back in the day when we were living in a cave, our brain adapted for something that's very different. And to be honest, from a neurological point of view, it pretty much hasn't changed since So we've got the same brain that our cave ancestors would have had as well. Which means that the way that we study now with books and writing and notes and all of that is something that our brain is very bad at. It's a very artificial way of learning. So let's really look at what it was like for our cave ancestors and what our brain adapted to be really good at. So this is the cave theory of of learning. And when we understand how our brain adapted and what type of problems it grew to solve, then we can actually start implementing that in our own practice and with our modern day studies. So way back in the day, imagine that you're this cave dude this cave woman and you are struggling to just survive. Your main agenda on your items is basically step number one, stay alive. Step number two, maybe live well. And by well, it might be be a bit more comfortable, struggle for food a little bit less, be a little bit warmer, and a very basic things. So this is the, you the cave agenda of the day. You know, you wake up in the morning and you need to figure out, where am I gonna get food from? Am I gonna make sure that my shelter is safe and secure? Am I going to be able to hunt or gather in order to support myself and support my family or support my little community? And so all of these things become very pertinent problems. Obviously, because if you don't solve these problems, you're going to die, which is obviously quite a motivating factor for our brain. So the brain, the human brain adapted to be able to solve these types of problems very well. And if your brain just wasn't as good at solving these types of problems as someone else's brain, well, then you live and they die. So the brain is really the apex, the pinnacle of this machine that is created to solve these types of problems that help you survive or thrive. So the cave version of learning didn't involve sitting by the fireplace doing your stone flashcards and giving each other practice quizzes on the right type of berry to pick or the specific angle and momentum that you need to thrust the spear in order to kill a bear that's about to maul your friend. No, the learning was a lot more organic. And if you imagine this dude went out for a walk one day and he's running along to Savannah, then there are various things that are going to go through his mind. He might be looking at the sun and the position of the sun. He might see some prints on the ground indicating that there might be an animal up ahead. And so he's gonna be using all of these clues that come in that allow him to solve these problems. So this is a clue, this is a clue, this is a clue. All of these bits of information come into his brain and are connected together in order to solve a specific problem and is very purposeful. So you'll recall what I said before about the fact that our brain is really good at learning when we give it more of a purposeful focus. This is the reason why, is because it adapted to these types of situations. So you can guarantee that when it comes time to maybe throwing a spear at this animal in order to hunt it, the spear projectile motion graph was not something that this guy learned. He didn't scroll it on his cave "Okay, well, the ideal velocity and the ideal angle of takeoff in order for me to hit a pig or wild boar that is exactly 15 meters away would be X and then so for X." So this is not the way that they would have learned and they wouldn't have done, "Okay, well, what if the pig was at 10 meters? What if the pig was at 20 meters? What if it wasn't a boar? What if it was a gazelle or something? Do I need to throw it harder or not as hard or does it change my, you know, all of these sorts of things that if it was in a cave curriculum, they may have ended up studying it the same way that you would study it, right? Very academically through this rote learning. But the thing is that this idea of a curriculum didn't even exist. So the brain had no reason to learn with these strict structures of going to class. Oh, I learned this in class, therefore I need to know this. Oh, this is outside of the scope. Or I learned this in this class and I learned in this class, So therefore, they're separated. So all of these artificial boundaries and restrictions that we put on our brain are actually prepping and caging its ability to actually organically learn. So good learning is actually about allowing our brain simply to just learn the way that it wants to learn, the way that is adapted very finely to be able to learn, rather than trying to force the cube into the triangle hole and make our brain work in a way that it doesn't want to work in and is very bad and inefficient at working at. So keep this in mind, and you're gonna see that when we introduce various other techniques, we'll see how it comes back to this cave theory of learning and why learning can be so much more organic and so much more enjoyable and just so much easier and how all of these techniques consistently come back to this idea our brain was built to be able to survive and thrive very well and not to just memorize and regurgitate information nonstop. [ Background noise ]
