# Cave theory example
_**Think of a hobby, series, sport or instrument. How would you teach a complete beginner about this?**_

You are probably imagining methods of teaching and learning that are drastically different from how you might study and learn more "formal" or "intensive" topics. Some of the topics we know best have been learned without ever using traditional "studying methods". Likely, your brain learned in a way that felt natural and efficient (and probably enjoyable).

Many believe that studying within curriculums and courses cannot be like this. However, information is just information. They would be surprised to find out that the learning methods we will teach you allow you to use your brain in that authentic, efficient way that it's capable of.

> [!transcript]- Transcript
> In order to figure out the best way to use our brain, we need to figure out what our brain was designed and built for. So if you think about modern education and modern studying, you might think about reading books, writing notes, going to class, but these are all very recent things. If you think back way back in the day when we were living in a cave, our brain adapted for something that's very different. And to be honest, from a neurological point of view, it pretty much hasn't changed since So we've got the same brain that our cave ancestors would have had as well. Which means that the way that we study now with books and writing and notes and all of that is something that our brain is very bad at. It's a very artificial way of learning. So let's really look at what it was like for our cave ancestors and what our brain adapted to be really good at. So this is the cave theory of of learning. And when we understand how our brain adapted and what type of problems it grew to solve, then we can actually start implementing that in our own practice and with our modern day studies. So way back in the day, imagine that you're this cave dude this cave woman and you are struggling to just survive. Your main agenda on your items is basically step number one, stay alive. Step number two, maybe live well. And by well, it might be be a bit more comfortable, struggle for food a little bit less, be a little bit warmer, and a very basic things. So this is the, you the cave agenda of the day. You know, you wake up in the morning and you need to figure out, where am I gonna get food from? Am I gonna make sure that my shelter is safe and secure? Am I going to be able to hunt or gather in order to support myself and support my family or support my little community? And so all of these things become very pertinent problems. Obviously, because if you don't solve these problems, you're going to die, which is obviously quite a motivating factor for our brain. So the brain, the human brain adapted to be able to solve these types of problems very well. And if your brain just wasn't as good at solving these types of problems as someone else's brain, well, then you live and they die. So the brain is really the apex, the pinnacle of this machine that is created to solve these types of problems that help you survive or thrive. So the cave version of learning didn't involve sitting by the fireplace doing your stone flashcards and giving each other practice quizzes on the right type of berry to pick or the specific angle and momentum that you need to thrust the spear in order to kill a bear that's about to maul your friend. No, the learning was a lot more organic. And if you imagine this dude went out for a walk one day and he's running along to Savannah, then there are various things that are going to go through his mind. He might be looking at the sun and the position of the sun. He might see some prints on the ground indicating that there might be an animal up ahead. And so he's gonna be using all of these clues that come in that allow him to solve these problems. So this is a clue, this is a clue, this is a clue. All of these bits of information come into his brain and are connected together in order to solve a specific problem and is very purposeful. So you'll recall what I said before about the fact that our brain is really good at learning when we give it more of a purposeful focus. This is the reason why, is because it adapted to these types of situations. So you can guarantee that when it comes time to maybe throwing a spear at this animal in order to hunt it, the spear projectile motion graph was not something that this guy learned. He didn't scroll it on his cave "Okay, well, the ideal velocity and the ideal angle of takeoff in order for me to hit a pig or wild boar that is exactly 15 meters away would be X and then so for X." So this is not the way that they would have learned and they wouldn't have done, "Okay, well, what if the pig was at 10 meters? What if the pig was at 20 meters? What if it wasn't a boar? What if it was a gazelle or something? Do I need to throw it harder or not as hard or does it change my, you know, all of these sorts of things that if it was in a cave curriculum, they may have ended up studying it the same way that you would study it, right? Very academically through this rote learning. But the thing is that this idea of a curriculum didn't even exist. So the brain had no reason to learn with these strict structures of going to class. Oh, I learned this in class, therefore I need to know this. Oh, this is outside of the scope. Or I learned this in this class and I learned in this class, So therefore, they're separated. So all of these artificial boundaries and restrictions that we put on our brain are actually prepping and caging its ability to actually organically learn. So good learning is actually about allowing our brain simply to just learn the way that it wants to learn, the way that is adapted very finely to be able to learn, rather than trying to force the cube into the triangle hole and make our brain work in a way that it doesn't want to work in and is very bad and inefficient at working at. So keep this in mind, and you're gonna see that when we introduce various other techniques, we'll see how it comes back to this cave theory of learning and why learning can be so much more organic and so much more enjoyable and just so much easier and how all of these techniques consistently come back to this idea our brain was built to be able to survive and thrive very well and not to just memorize and regurgitate information nonstop. [ Background noise ]

> [!transcript]- Transcript
> Now the good news is that you're not just a completely lost soul. In fact, that cave theory, that way of learning that our brain has learnt to learn in for so many years is still there. It's the way that your brain is just structured. So you haven't actually lost the ability and we can demonstrate that very easily. From now on, this is actually how I want you to think about learning. This is the comparison I want you to make in terms of how your brain is capable of learning. I want you to think of a hobby or a book series or a movie series or some kind of, you know, whatever it is, a sport or an instrument, something that you think you know quite a bit about, that you've done for a long time. I don't want you to think about a subject that you've studied in school, just something that you have done out of your own interest because it was relevant to you, that you've You've spent time investing and immersing yourself in, and now you feel like, you know what? I know a pretty decent amount about this. If you were to imagine teaching that to a complete beginner, and you've only got, let's say, a few hours to teach it to them, how would you teach it to them in order for them to learn it in the fastest possible way? Think about what you're doing that first couple hours, what you do in the next couple of hours, how would you allow this new, enthusiastic, blank slate of a learner to learn as much about your hobby or instrument or sport or whatever it is, and as much as possible in a short period of time? You probably have a certain idea about what you might do, and it probably does not involve you going to write and type out an enormous manual of everything that you know, giving it to them, getting them to read it, and then writing it out again, and then doing like flashcards and quizzes on it until they figured it out. It's probably not an efficient way. So the thing is, even intuitively, you already know that the way of studying that you might be using is not something that works sustainably and is not even efficient. You would not choose to teach it in that way to someone that wanted to learn about it. But what's the difference between that hobby or the book series or whatever you're thinking about, and the stuff that you learn in academic curriculum. If you were to write it all down, you'll probably have to go on for pages and pages and pages. You might know more about this than you know about your entire biology or physics or maths or English curriculum. So if you were to learn it in school, you might have ended up learning it exactly the same way that you learn all your normal subjects. But because you didn't have it in the framework and the box of school, we end up using much more organic, well-developed learning pathways. And this is why when you think about that hobby or sport or skill or book series or whatever, you can think about it a lot more organically and the information is probably more omnidirectional. You can start from anywhere and go anywhere else. If you think about your favorite character and I say, "Hey, how would that character react in this scenario?" You can probably piece that together synthesize for me the idea about how you think your character that's entirely fictional would react in an entirely hypothetical situation. How many of you could take a concept in biology or physics or maths and then apply it to a completely new and complex different type of problem that you've never encountered before? How many of you could say I can take this concept and this concept and apply it in a completely new way? It takes a certain level of mastery of knowledge to be able to do that. And when we use organic learning pathways that are already built into our brain, it's a lot easier and actually is enjoyable. So in learning your hobby or your instrument, you probably never had to actually sit down and write a bunch of notes like you would for your subjects. You probably never had to do past paper questions or quizzes or flashcards or use whatever Pomodoro technique that you might use in order to do that. So our brains natural ability to learn is quite high, but we keep holding it back. And when we think about learning a hobby and how easy and enjoyable it is, and how long we're able to retain that for. You know, if you learn a new skill, you don't forget that the next week. You tend to retain that for a very long time. And so when we calibrate our sense of learning to how our brain works outside of the box of school, we get a really clean comparison between how learning could feel and should feel versus how we're forced it to feel, which could be this very dry and tedious process, which no one really enjoys. And you could get kind of good at it, but at the end of the day, you're getting good at doing something that you're caging. It's like having chains shackled on every single limb with heavy weights weighing it down. can potentially train so hard that you're still able to run at a decent pace. But compared to someone who actually took the shackles off and is just running freely, there's no comparison. The thing is that if you really think about the knowledge that you have, that you know the deepest and the greatest level of retention and the most comfortable type of knowledge that you have, it's probably the thing that you didn't actually spend dozens or hundreds of hours studying at the library and writing notes about, which is a little bit sad. The knowledge that you know the best is the stuff that you learn almost without even having to try. Actually, this is how studying should feel, and you can make it feel that way, at least to a pretty significant degree when you use the right technique. So the techniques that I share with you are going to slowly allow you to start taking those shackles off, uncaging and unrestricting your brain, and getting back to those really well-defined organic learning pathways that you've trained yourself out of throughout high school and all your academic experience. But we're then going to reconnect with that and rediscover, and then we'll see how easy and efficient learning can really be. 10 cm

