# Scheduling mistakes
## Common mistakes

How's your time management going so far?

The basics you learned in the High-Yield phase are often enough for most people. But if you're struggling with consistency, you might be running into these mistakes:

1. **Not scheduling**: If you’re the type of person who “wings it” and has no structure in their studying, it is time to make some plans.  
2. **Vague scheduling**: This happens when you are not specific enough with your scheduling (e.g. allocating time for “Maths” or “English” but not specifying what you’re going to do). 
3. **Overambitious scheduling**: If you can’t follow your schedule because it’s overpacked and unrealistic, you may become demoralised and stressed and give up.

> [!transcript]- Transcript
> (Dış ses of students find it difficult to schedule things in and even just create schedules that are sustainable and work for them. And we're just gonna go through and figure out what the main mistakes that students are making when it comes to scheduling and time management and just some guidelines on how we can fix them. So first of all, these are the common mistakes when it comes to good scheduling. So the most common mistake that people are making is that they They actually just don't make schedules. In that, they're kind of just winging it. They wake up and they figure, okay, today I'm gonna try to do this. And if I've got time, I'll do this. And then later in the week, sometime I'll do this. And then I'll revise this later when I feel up for it and have time. So, obviously, if you don't even have any structure, you just have nothing to work off of. So the first thing you need to do is actually start making a schedule and realize what are the mistakes that you're probably going to make. The second mistake that people make with scheduling is that they set times that are far too loose or vague. And what I mean is that you'll have a schedule and then that may be divided into hours. 1pm and then 2pm and then 3pm and then between the hours of 1 to 3pm, they will just say "biology". And that's their schedule. From 1 to 3pm, biology. It's way too vague and it doesn't really give you any real idea about what you're actually meant to be doing in the moment. So for beginners who are just getting into scheduling, I'd actually recommend dividing your schedule down right all the way down to make sure that you know exactly what you're doing. So don't just say 1 to 3 p.m. biology, actually break that down into something that's a lot more specific and we'll go over the guidelines all at once later. But if your schedule just is basically key words that are loosely defined to a general time block, then you're probably making this mistake. The third issue with scheduling is that it tends to be way too over-packed or over-ambitious. So after biology at 3pm and then 3-4pm is English and then from 4-5pm is Spanish and And then from 5 to 6pm is maths. And then from 6 to 6.30 is dinner. You know, the schedule is so packed that number one, there's no room for error. The chances are that your schedule is not going to go exactly to plan. Even if you are perfectly in focus, which most of the time you're not going to be perfectly in focus, even if you were, things can always come up during the day. And if things come up, they could potentially derail you. And the thing with getting a schedule derailed is that it's kind of demoralizing and demotivating. So you could be having a great day, something happens, and you missed your 3pm deadline, and now you're like, "Well, look, my schedule's screwed up already. I may as well just give up for the rest of the day." And it's very tempting to fall into that. So we want to make sure that when we're scheduling, we're not overpacking them where it's down to the minute. leave room and buffer in between so that the schedule is realistic and achievable. It's better to have a consistent schedule that you're able to follow, that you're achieving every single day, rather than a schedule where on your best day you'll get everything done and have an awesome day, but nine out of ten days you fail on half of the tasks because it was just way too ambitious. So we really want to make sure that our schedules are, number one, created so that we give ourselves some level of control over how we're spending our time. We want to make sure that they're much more specific so that we're being more intentional and giving our brain more of a focus because if it's too vague, then it's gonna cause a lot of delays in between. You know, you might end up sitting down here at 1 p.m. and think, okay, it's time for biology, but then you're like, well, what do I do now? And that time where the delay comes in could eventually lead to procrastination. And in fact, often what happens is that people will get distracted during this delay period, which is actually what leads them down to just being completely derailed for the entire rest of the day. And especially when there's a lot to do, you just can't afford to have these delays in there. And then finally, we wanna make sure that we're not overpacking them because this creates a schedule that is too fragile or brittle, it's not flexible, it doesn't adapt. And it also, just because you've overpacked the schedule doesn't mean that it's become any more intentional. Often these two things will come in together. So you'll end up with schedules that are not only vague and loosely defined, but also really overpacked, which means that at every single one of these moments, there is a delay, there is a delay, there is a delay, there is a delay. And so you've got even less time to do what you need to do and you've got too many things to do in the first place. So it's just a perfect recipe for a schedule failing. And these are the reasons why most people when they start scheduling, they're not able to continue that for more than a week or two. It's because the schedule wasn't built sustainably in the first place. So let's have a look a little bit more at how to avoid these mistakes and then do the better alternative and make schedules that actually work. And these are still the guidelines that I will still use to this day. Again, these are just the bare basics which you need to follow. And then on top of that, we can actually layer some really interesting, more advanced time management techniques that we'll teach you later in the course. But again, you need to have this as the foundation. 10. [dog barks] (child mumbling)  私は (whistling) (dog barking) (whistling) 私は Av. 私はそれを [Applause] 私は 私はあなた 私はあなた 私はそれを [silêncio] [silen [BARKING] (whistling) 今 日は、私が一つの

